THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION ACT, 2005
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Last Updated: 17-5-202 1
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
SECTIONS
1. Short title, extent and commencement.
2. Definitions.
CHAPTER II
RIGHT TO INFORMATION AND OBLIGATIONS OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES
3. Right to information.
4. Obligations of public authorities.
5. Designation of Public Information Officers.
6. Request for obtaining information.
7. Disposal of request.
8. Exemption from disclosure of information.
9. Grounds for rejection to access in certain cases.
10. Severability.
11. Third party information.
CHAPTER III
THE CENTRAL INFORMATION COMMISSION
12. Constitution of Central Information Commission.
13. Terms of office and conditions of service.
14. Removal of Chief Information Commissioner or Information Commissioner.
CHAPTER IV
THE STATE INFORMATION COMMISSION
15. Constitution of State Information Commission.
16. Term of office and conditions of service.
17. Removal of State Chief Information Commissioner or State Information Commissioner.
CHAPTER V
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONS, APPEAL AND PENALTIES
18. Powers and functions of Information Commissions.
SECTIONS
19. Appeal.
20. Penalties.
CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS
21. Protection of action taken in good faith.
22. Act to have overriding effect.
23. Bar ofjurisdiction of courts.
24. Act not to apply to certain organisations.
25. Monitoring and reporting.
26. Appropriate Government to prepare programmes.
27. Power to make rules by appropriate Government.
28. Power to make rules by competent authority.
29. Laying of rules.
30. Power to remove difficulties.
31. Repeal.
THE FIRST SCHEDULE.
THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
2
THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION ACT, 2005
ACT No. 22 OF 2005
[15th June, 2005.]
An Act to provide for setting out the practical regime of right to information for citizens to
secure access to information under the control of public authorities, in order to promote
transparency and accountability in the workiiig of every public authority, the constitution of a
Central Information Commission and State Information Commissions and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
WHEREAS the Constitution of India has established democratic Republic;
AND WHEREAS democracy requires an informed citizenly and transparency of information which are
vital to its functioning and also to contain colTuption and to hold Governments are their instrumentalities
accountable to the governed;
AND WHEREAS revelation of information in actual practice is likely to conflict with other public
interests including efficient operations of the Governments, optimum use of limited fiscal resources and
the preservation of confidentiality of sensitive infonnation;
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to harmonise these conflicting interests while preserving the
paramountcy of the democratic ideal;
Now, THEREFORE, it is expendient to provide for fumishing certain information to citizens who
desire to have it.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—(1) This Act may be called the Right to Information
Act, 2005.
(2) It extends to the whole of Indial***.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) of section 4, sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 5, sections 12,
13, 15,16, 24, 27 and 28 shall come into force at once, and the remaining provisions of this Act shall
come into force on the one hundred and twentieth day of its enactment.
2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) "appropriate Government" means in relation to a public authority which is established,
constituted, owned, controlled or substantially financed by funds provided directly or indirectly—
(i) by the Central Government or the Union territory administration, the Central Government;
(ii) by the State Government, the State Government;
(b) "Central Information Commission" means the Central Information Commission constituted
under sub-section (1) of section 12;
(c) "Central Public Information Officer" means the Central Public Information Officer designated
under sub-section (1) and includes a Central Assistant Public Information Officer designated as such
under sub-section (2) of section 5;
(d) "Chief Information Commissioner" and "Information Commissioner" mean the Chief
Information Commissioner and Information Commissioner appointed under sub-section (3) of section
12;
I. The words "except the State of Jammu and Kashmir" omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule
(w.e.f. 3 1-10-2019).
3
(e) "competent authority" means—
(i) the Speaker in the case of the House of the People or the Legislative Assembly of a State
or a Union territory having such Assembly and the Chainnan in the case of the Council of States
or Legislative Council of a State;
(ii) the Chief Justice of India in the case of the Supreme Court;
(iii) the Chief Justice of the High Court in the case of a High Court;
(iv) the President or the Governor, as the case may be, in the case of other authorities
established or constituted by or under the Constitution;
(v) the administrator appointed under article 239 of the Constitution;
(/) 'information" means any material in any form, including records, documents, memos, e-rnails,
opinions, advices, press releases, circulars, orders, logbooks. contracts, reports, papers, samples,
models, data material held in any electronic form and information relating to any private body which
can be accessed by a public authority under any other law for the time being in force;
(g) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act by the appropriate Government or
the competent authority, as the case may be;
(Ii) "public authority" means any authority or body or institution of self- government established
or constituted—
(a) by or under the Constitution;
(b) by any other law made by Parliament;
(c) by any other law made by State Legislature;
(ci) by notification issued or order made by the appropriate Government,
and includes any—
(i) body owned, controlled or substantially financed;
(ii) non-Government organisation substantially financed,
directly or indirectly by funds provided by the appropriate Government;
(i) "record" includes—
(a) any document, manuscript and file;
(b) any microfilm, microfiche and facsimile copy of a document;
(c) any reproduction of image or images embodied in such microfilm (whether enlarged or
not); and
(ci) any other material produced by a computer or any other device;
(I) "right to information" means the right to information accessible under this Act which is held
by or under the control of any public authority and includes the right to—
(i) inspection of work, documents, records;
(ii) taking notes, extracts or certified copies of documents or records;
(iii) taking certified samples of material;
(iv) obtaining information in the form of diskettes, floppies, tapes, video cassettes or in any
other electronic mode or through printouts where such information is stored in a computer or in
any other device;
(k) "State Information Commission" means the State Information Commission constituted under
sub-section (1) of section 15;
4
(1) "State Chief Information Commissioner" and "State Information Commissioner mean the
State Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information Commissioner appointed under subsection (3) of section 15;
(in) 'State Public Information Officer" means the State Public Information Officer designated
under sub-section (1) and includes a State Assistant Public Information Officer designated as such
under sub-section (2) of section 5;
(n) "third party" means a person other than the citizen making a request for information and
includes a public authority.
CHAPTER II
RIGHT TO INFORMATION AND OBLIGATIONS OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES
3. Right to information.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, all citizens shall have the right to
information.
4. Obligations of public authorities.—(/) Every public authority shall—
(a) maintain all its records duly catalogued and indexed in a maimer and the form which
facilitates the right to information under this Act and ensure that all records that are appropriate to be
computerised are, within a reasonable time and subject to availability of resources, computerised and
connected through a network all over the country on different systems so that access to such records
is facilitated;
(b) publish within one hundred and twenty days from the enactment of this Act,—
(i) the particulars of its organisation, functions and duties;
(ii) the powers and duties of its officers and employees;
(iii) the procedure followed in the decision making process, including channels of supervision
and accountability;
(iv) the norms set by it for the discharge of its functions;
(v) the rules, regulations, instructions, manuals and records, held by it or under its control or
used by its employees for discharging its functions;
(vi) a statement of the categories of documents that are held by it or under its control;
(vii) the particulars of any arrangement that exists for consultation with, or representation by,
the members of the public in relation to the formulation of its policy or implementation thereof
(viii) a statement of the boards, councils, committees and other bodies consisting of two or
more persons constituted as its part or for the purpose of its advice, and as to whether meetings of
those boards, councils, committees and other bodies are open to the public, or the minutes of such
meetings are accessible for public;
(ix) a directory of its officers and employees;
(x) the monthly remuneration received by each of its officers and employees, including the
system of compensation as provided in its regulations;
(xi) the budget allocated to each of its agency, indicating the particulars of all plans, proposed
expenditures and reports on disbursements made;
(xii) the maimer of execution of subsidy programmes, including the amounts allocated and
the details of beneficiaries of such programmes;
(xiii) particulars of recipients of concessions, permits or authorisations granted by it;
(xiv) details in respect of the information, available to or held by it, reduced in an electronic
form;
5
(xv) the particulars of facilities available to citizens for obtaining information, including the
working hours of a library or reading room, if maintained for public use;
(xvi) the names, designations and other particulars of the Public Information Officers;
(xvii) such other information as may be prescribed;
and thereafter update these publications every year;
(c) publish all relevant facts while formulating important policies or announcing the decisions
which affect public;
(d) provide reasons for its administrative or quasi-judicial decisions to affected persons.
(2) It shall be a constant endeavour of every public authority to take steps in accordance with the
requirements of clause (b) of sub-section (1) to provide as much information suo.'notu to the public at
regular intervals through various means of communications, including internet, so that the public have
minimum resort to the use of this Act to obtain information.
(3) For the purposes of sub-section (1), every information shall be disseminated widely and in such
form and manner which is easily accessible to the public.
(4) All materials shall be disseminated taking into consideration the cost effectiveness, local language
and the most effective method of communication in that local area and the information should be easily
accessible, to the extent possible in electronic fomrnt with the Central Public Information Officer or State
Public Information Officer, as the case may be, available free or at such cost of the medium or the print
cost price as may be prescribed.
Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-sections (3) and (4), "disseminated" means making known or
communicated the information to the public through notice boards, newspapers, public announcements,
media broadcasts, the internet or any other means, including inspection of offices of any public authority.
5. Designation of Public Information Officers.—(1) Every public authority shall, within one
hundred days of the enactment of this Act, designate as many officers as the Central Public Information
Officers or State Public Information Officers, as the case may be, in all administrative units or offices
under it as may be necessary to provide information to persons requesting for the information under this
Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), every public authority shall designate an
officer, within one hundred days of the enactment of this Act, at each sub-divisional level or other subdistrict level as a Central Assistant Public Information Officer or a State Assistant Public Information
Officer, as the case may be, to receive the applications for information or appeals under this Act for
forwarding the same forthwith to the Central Public Information Officer or the State Public Information
Officer or senior officer specified under sub-section (1) of section 19 or the Central Information
Commission or the State Information Commission, as the case may be:
Provided that where an application for information or appeal is given to a Central Assistant Public
Information Officer or a State Assistant Public Information Officer, as the case may be, a period of five
days shall be added in computing the period for response specified under sub-section (1) of section 7.
(3) Every Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be,
shall deal with requests from persons seeking information and render reasonable assistance to the persons
seeking such information.
(4) The Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be,
may seek the assistance of any other officer as he or she considers it necessary for the proper discharge of
his or her duties.
(5) Any officer, whose assistance has been sought under sub-section (4), shall render all assistance to
the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, seeking
his or her assistance and for the purposes of any contravention of the provisions of this Act, such other
officer shall be treated as a Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the
case may be.
6
6. Request for obtaining information.—(1) A person, who desires to obtain any information under
this Act, shall make a request in writing or through electronic means in English or Hindi or in the official
language of the area in which the application is being made, accompanying such fee as may be
prescribed, to—
(a) the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may
be, of the concerned public authority;
(b) the Central Assistant Public Information Officer or State Assistant Public Information Officer,
as the case may be,
specifying the particulars of the information sought by him or her:
Provided that where such request cannot be made in writing, the Central Public Information Officer
or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall render all reasonable assistance to the
person making the request orally to reduce the same in writing.
(2) An applicant making request for information shall not be required to give any reason for
requesting the information or any other personal details except those that may be necessary for contacting
him.
(3) Where an application is made to a public authority requesting for an information,—
(i) which is held by another public authority; or
(ii) the subject matter of which is more closely connected with the functions of another public
authority,
the public authority, to which such application is made, shall transfer the application or such part of it as
may be appropriate to that other public authority and inform the applicant immediately about such
transfer:
Provided that the transfer of an application pursuant to this sub-section shall be made as soon as
practicable but in no case later than five days from the date of receipt of the application.
7. Disposal of request.—(1) Subject to the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 5 or the proviso to
sub-section (3) of section 6, the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as
the case may be, on receipt of a request under section 6 shall, as expeditiously as possible, and in any case
within thirty days of the receipt of the request, either provide the information on payment of such fee as
may be prescribed or reject the request for any of the reasons specified in sections 8 and 9:
Provided that where the information sought for concerns the life or liberty of a person, the same shall
be provided within forty-eight hours of the receipt of the request.
(2) If the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be,
fails to give decision on the request for information within the period specified under sub-section (1), the
Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to have refused the request.
(3) Where a decision is taken to provide the information on payment of any further fee representing
the cost of providing the information, the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information
Officer, as the case may be, shall send an intimation to the person making the request, giving—
(a) the details of further fees representing the cost of providing the information as determined by
him, together with the calculations made to arrive at the amount in accordance with fee prescribed
under sub-section (1), requesting him to deposit that fees, and the period intervening between the
despatch of the said intimation and payment of fees shall be excluded for the purpose of calculating
the period of thirty days referred to in that sub-section;
(b) information concerning his or her right with respect to review the decision as to the amount of
fees charged or the form of access provided, including the particulars of the appellate authority, time
limit, process and any other forms.
7
(4) Where access to the record or a part thereof is required to be provided under this Act and the
person to whom access is to be provided is sensorily disabled, the Central Public Information Officer or
State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall provide assistance to enable access to the
information, including providing such assistance as may be appropriate for the inspection.
(5) Where access to information is to be provided in the printed or in any electronic format, the
applicant shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (6), pay such fee as may be prescribed:
Provided that the fee prescribed under sub-section (1) of section 6 and sub-sections (1) and (5) of
section 7 shall be reasonable and no such fee shall be charged from the persons who are of below poverty
line as may be determined by the appropriate Government.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (5), the person making request for the
information shall be provided the information free of charge where a public authority fails to comply with
the time limits specified in sub-section (1).
(7) Before taking any decision under sub-section (1), the Central Public Information Officer or State
Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall take into consideration the representation made by a
third party under section 11.
(8) Where a request has been rejected under sub-section (1), the Central Public Information Officer or
State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall communicate to the person making the
request,—
(i) the reasons for such rejection;
(ii) the period within which an appeal against such rejection may be preferred; and
(iii) the particulars of the appellate authority.
(9)An information shall ordinarily be provided in the form in which it is sought unless it would
disproportionately divert the resources of the public authority or would be detrimental to the safety or
preservation of the record in question.
8. Exemption from disclosure of information.—(]) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
there shall be no obligation to give any citizen,—
(a) information, disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of
India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with foreign State or
lead to incitement of an offence;
(b) information which has been expressly forbidden to be published by any court of law or
tribunal or the disclosure of which may constitute contempt of court;
(c) information, the disclosure of which would cause a breach of privilege of Parliament or the
State Legislature;
(ci) information including commercial confidence, trade secrets or intellectual property, the
disclosure of which would harm the competitive position of a third party, unless the competent
authority is satisfied that larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such information;
(e) information available to a person in his fiduciary relationship, unless the competent authority
is satisfied that the larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such information;
U) information received in confidence from foreign Government;
(g) information, the disclosure of which would endanger the life or physical safety of any person
or identify the source of information or assistance given in confidence for law enforcement or security
purposes;
(h) information which would impede the process of investigation or apprehension or prosecution
of offenders;
(i) cabinet papers including records of deliberations of the Council of Ministers, Secretaries and
other officers:
8
Provided that the decisions of Council of Ministers, the reasons thereof, and the material on the
basis of which the decisions were taken shall be made public after the decision has been taken, and
the matter is complete, or over:
Provided further that those matters which come under the exemptions specified in this section
shall not be disclosed;
(j) information which relates to personal information the disclosure of which has no relationship
to any public activity or interest, or which would cause unwarranted invasion of the privacy of the
individual unless the Central Public Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer or the
appellate authority, as the case may be, is satisfied that the larger public interest justifies the
disclosure of such information:
Provided that the information which cannot be denied to the Parliament or a State Legislature
shall not be denied to any person.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in the Official Secrets Act, 1923 (19 of 1923) nor any of the
exemptions permissible in accordance with sub-section (1), a public authority may allow access to
information, if public interest in disclosure outweighs the harm to the protected interests.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clauses (a), (c) and (i) of sub-section (1), any information relating to
any occurrence, event or matter which has taken place, occurred or happened twenty years before the date
on which any request is made under section 6 shall be provided to any person making a request under that
section:
Provided that where any question arises as to the date from which the said period of twenty years has
to be computed, the decision of the Central Government shall be final, subject to the usual appeals
provided for in this Act.
9. Grounds for rejection to access in certain cases.—Without prejudice to the provisions of section
8, a Central Public Information Officer or a State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, may
reject a request for information where such a request for providing access would involve an infringement
of copyright subsisting in a person other than the State.
10. Severability.—(/) Where a request for access to information is rejected on the ground that it is in
relation to information which is exempt from disclosure, then, notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act, access may be provided to that part of the record which does not contain any information which is
exempt from disclosure under this Act and which can reasonably be severed from any part that contains
exempt information.
(2) Where access is granted to a part of the record under sub-section (1), the Central Public
Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall give a notice to the
applicant, informing—
(a) that only part of the record requested, after severance of the record containing information
which is exempt from disclosure, is being provided;
(b) the reasons for the decision, including any findings on any material question of fact, referring
to the material on which those findings were based;
(c) the name and designation of the person giving the decision;
(d) the details of the fees calculated by him or her and the amount of fee which the applicant is
required to deposit; and
(e) his or her rights with respect to review of the decision regarding non-disclosure of part of the
information, the amount of fee charged or the form of access provided, including the particulars of the
senior officer specified under sub-section (1) of section 19 or the Central Information Commission or
the State Information Commission, as the case may be, time limit, process and any other form of
access.
11. Third party information.—(1) Where a Central Public Information Officer or a State Public
Information Officer, as the case may be, intends to disclose any information or record, or part thereof on a
9
request made under this Act, which relates to or has been supplied by a third party and has been treated as
confidential by that third party, the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information
Officer, as the case may be, shall, within five days from the receipt of the request, give a written notice to
such third party of the request and of the fact that the Central Public Information Officer or State Public
Information Officer, as the case may be, intends to disclose the information or record, or part thereof, and
invite the third party to make a submission in writing or orally, regarding whether the information should
be disclosed, and such submission of the third party shall be kept in view while taking a decision about
disclosure of information:
Provided that except in the case of trade or commercial secrets protected by law, disclosure may be
allowed if the public interest in disclosure outweighs in importance any possible harm or injury to the
interests of such third party.
(2) Where a notice is served by the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information
Officer, as the case may be, tinder sub-section (1) to a third party in respect of any information or record
or part thereof, the third party shall, within ten days from the date of receipt of such notice, be given the
opportunity to make representation against the proposed disclosure.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 7, the Central Public Information Officer or State
Public Information Officer, as the case may be, shall, within forty days after receipt of the request under
section 6, if the third party has been given an opportunity to make representation under sub-section (2),
make a decision as to whether or not to disclose the information or record or part thereof and give in
writing the notice of his decision to the third party.
(4) A notice given under sub-section (3) shall include a statement that the third party to whom the
notice is given is entitled to prefer an appeal under section 19 against the decision.
CHAPTER III
THE CENTRAL INFORMATION COMMISSION
12. Constitution of Central Information Commission.—(I) The Central Government shall, by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a body to be known as the Central Information Commission
to exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform the functions assigned to, it under this Act.
(2) The Central Information Commission shall consist of—
(a) the Chief Information Commissioner; and
(b) such number of Central Information Commissioners, not exceeding ten, as may be deemed
necessary.
(3) The Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners shall be appointed by the
President on the recommendation of a committee consisting of—
(i) the Prime Minister, who shall be the Chairperson of the committee;
(ii) the Leader of Opposition in the LokSabha; and
(iii) a Union Cabinet Minister to be nominated by the Prime Minister.
Explanation.—For the purposes of removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where the Leader of
Opposition in the House of the People has not been recognised as such, the Leader of the single largest
group in opposition of the Government in the House of the People shall be deemed to be the Leader of
Opposition.
(4) The general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs of the Central Information
Commission shall vest in the Chief Information Commissioner who shall be assisted by the Information
Commissioners and may exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things which may be exercised
or done by the Central Information Commission autonomously without being subjected to directions by
any other authority under this Act.
10
(5) The Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners shall be persons of
eminence in public life with wide knowledge and experience in law, science and technology, social
service, management, journalism, mass media or administration and governance.
(6) The Chief Information Commissioner or an Information Commissioner shall not be a Member of
Parliament or Member of the Legislature of any State or Union telTitory, as the case may be, or hold any
other office of profit or connected with any political party or carrying on any business or pursuing any
profession.
(7) The headquarters of the Central Information Commission shall be at Delhi and the Central
Information Commission may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, establish offices at
other places in India.
13. Term of office and conditions of service.—(1) The Chief Information Commissioner shall hold
office '[for such term as may be prescribed by the Central Government] and shall not be eligible for
reappointment:
Provided that no Chief Information Commissioner shall hold office as such after he has attained the
age of sixty-five years.
(2) Every Information Commissioner shall hold office '[for such term as may be prescribed by the
Central Government] or till he attains the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier, and shall not be
eligible for reappointment as such Information Commissioner:
Provided that every Information Commissioner shall, on vacating his office under this sub-section be
eligible for appointment as the Chief Information Commissioner in the manner specified in sub-section
(3) of section 12:
Provided further that where the Information Commissioner is appointed as the Chief Information
Commissioner, his term of office shall not be more than five years in aggregate as the Information
Commissioner and the Chief Information Commissioner.
(3) The Chief Information Commissioner or an Information Commissioner shall before he enters
upon his office make and subscribe before the President or some other person appointed by him in that
behalf, an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the First Schedule.
(4) The Chief Information Commissioner or an Information Commissioner may, at any time, by
writing under his hand addressed to the President, resign from his office:
Provided that the Chief Information Commissioner or an Information Commissioner may be removed
in the manner specified under section 14.
2[(5) The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of the Chief
Information Commissioner and the Information Commissioners shall be such as may be prescribed by the
Central Government:
Provided that the salaries, allowances and other conditions of service of the Chief Information
Commissioner or the Information Commissioners shall not be varied to their disadvantage after their
appointment:
Provided further that the Chief Information Commissioner and the Information Commissioners
appointed before the commencement of the Right to Information (Amendment) Act, 2019 shall continue
to be governed by the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder as if the Right to Information
(Amendment) Act, 2019 had not come into force.]
1. Subs. by Act 24 of 2019, s. 2, for "for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office" (w.e.f. 24-10-
20 19).
2. Subs. by, s. 2, ibid., for sub-section (5) (w.e.fl 24-10-20 19).
11
(6) The Central Government shall provide the Chief Information Commissioner and the Information
Commissioners with such officers and employees as may be necessary for the efficient performance of
their functions under this Act, and the salaries and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of
service of the officers and other employees appointed for the purpose of this Act shall be such as may be
prescribed.
Provided also that the salaries, allowances and other conditions of service of the Chief Information
Commissioner and the Information Commissioners shall not be varied to their disadvantage after their
appointment.
14. Removal of Chief Information Commissioner or Information Commissioner.—(1) Subject to
the provisions of sub-section (3), the Chief Information Commissioner or any Information Commissioner
shall be removed from his office only by order of the President on the ground of proved misbehaviour or
incapacity after the Supreme Court, on a reference made to it by the President, has, on inquiry, reported
that the Chief Information Commissioner or any Information Commissioner, as the case may be, ought on
such ground be removed.
(2) The President may suspend from office, and if deem necessary prohibit also from attending the
office during inquiry, the Chief Information Commissioner or Infonuation Commissioner in respect of
whom a reference has been made to the Supreme Court under sub-section (1) until the President has
passed orders on receipt of the report of the Supreme Court on such reference.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1). the President may by order remove from
office the Chief Information Commissioner or any Information Commissioner if the Chief Information
Commissioner or a Information Commissioner, as the case may be,—
(a) is adjudged an insolvent; or
(b) has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the President, involves moral
turpitude; or
(c) engages during his term of office in any paid employment outside the duties of his office; or
(ci) is, in the opinion of the President, unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmity of mind or
body; or
(e) has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as
the Chief Information Commissioner or a Information Commissioner.
(4) If the Chief Information Commissioner or a Information Commissioner in any way, concerned or
interested in any contract or agreement made by or on behalf of the Government of India or participates in
any way in the profit thereof or in any benefit or emolument arising therefrom otherwise than as a
member and in common with the other members of an incorporated company, he shall, for the purposes
of sub-section (1), be deemed to be guilty of misbehaviour.
CHAPTER IV
THE STATE INFORMATION COMMISSION
15. Constitution of State Information Commission.—(1) Every State Government shall, by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a body to be known as the (name of the State)
Information Commission to exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform the functions assigned to, it
under this Act.
(2) The State Information Commission shall consist of—
(a) the State Chief Information Commissioner, and
(h) such number of State Information Commissioners, not exceeding ten, as may be deemed
necessary.
(3) The State Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information Commissioners shall be
appointed by the Governor on the recommendation of a committee consisting of—
(i) the Chief Minister, who shall be the Chairperson of the committee;
12
(ii) the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly; and
(iii) a Cabinet Minister to be nominated by the Chief Minister.
Explanation.—For the purposes of removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where the Leader of
Opposition in the Legislative Assembly has not been recognised as such, the Leader of the single largest
group in opposition of the Government in the Legislative Assembly shall be deemed to be the Leader of
Opposition.
(4) The general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs of the State Information
Commission shall vest in the State Chief Information Commissioner who shall be assisted by the State
Information Commissioners and may exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things which may
be exercised or done by the State Information Commission autonomously without being subjected to
directions by any other authority under this Act.
(5) The State Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information Commissioners shall be
persons of eminence in public life with wide knowledge and experience in law, science and technology,
social service, management, journalism, mass media or administration and governance.
(6) The State Chief Information Conimissioner or a State Information Commissioner shall not be a
Member of Parliament or Member of the Legislature of any State or Union territory, as the case may be,
or hold any other office of profit or connected with any political party or carrying on any business or
pursuing any profession.
(7) The headquarters of the State Information Commission shall be at such place in the State as the
State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify and the State Information
Commission may, with the previous approval of the State Government, establish offices at other places in
the State.
16. Term of office and conditions of service.—(1) The State Chief Information Commissioner shall
hold office '[for such term as may be prescribed by the Central Government] and shall not be eligible for
reappointment:
Provided that no State Chief Information Commissioner shall hold office as such after he has attained
the age of sixty-five years.
(2) Every State Information Commissioner shall hold office [for such term as may be prescribed by
the Central Government] or till he attains the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier, and shall not be
eligible for reappointment as such State Information Commissioner:
Provided that every State Information Commissioner shall, on vacating his office under this subsection, be eligible for appointment as the State Chief Information Commissioner in the manner specified
in sub-section (3) of section 15:
Provided further that where the State Information Commissioner is appointed as the State Chief
Information Commissioner, his term of office shall not be more than five years in aggregate as the State
Information Commissioner and the State Chief Information Commissioner.
(3) The State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner, shall before he
enters upon his office make and subscribe before the Governor or some other person appointed by him in
that behalf, an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the First Schedule.
(4) The State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner may, at any
time, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign from his office:
Provided that the State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner may
be removed in the manner specified under section 17.
1. Subs. by Act 24 of2019. s. 3. for. "for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his oftice"(w.e.f. 24-10-
2019).
13
[(5) The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of the State
Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information Commissioners shall be such as may be
prescribed by the Central Government:
Provided that the salaries, allowances and other conditions of service of the State Chief Information
Commissioner and the State Information Commissioners shall not be varied to their disadvantage after
their appointment:
Provided further that the State Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information
Commissioners appointed before the commencement of the Right to Information (Amendment) Act, 2019
shall continue to be governed by the provisions of this Act and the rules made there under as if the Right
to Information (Amendment) Act, 2019 had not come into force.]
(6) The State Government shall provide the State Chief Information Commissioner and the State
Information Commissioners with such officers and employees as may be necessary for the efficient
performance of their functions under this Act, and the salaries and allowances payable to and the terms
and conditions of service of the officers and other employees appointed for the purpose of this Act shall
be such as may be prescribed.
17. Removal of State Chief Information Commissioner or State Information Commissioner.—
(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), the State Chief Information Commissioner or a State
Information Commissioner shall be removed from his office only by order of the Governor on the ground
of proved misbehaviour or incapacity after the Supreme Court, on a reference made to it by the Governor,
has on inquiry, reported that the State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information
Commissioner, as the case may be, ought on such ground be removed.
(2) The Governor may suspend from office, and if deem necessary prohibit also from attending the
office during inquiry, the State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner in
respect of whom a reference has been made to the Supreme Court under sub-section (1) until the
Governor has passed orders on receipt of the report of the Supreme Court on such reference.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Governor may by order remove from
office the State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner if a State Chief
Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner, as the case may be,—
(a) is adjudged an insolvent; or
(b) has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Governor, involves moral
turpitude; or
(c) engages during his term of office in any paid employment outside the duties of his office; or
(ci) is, in the opinion of the Governor, unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmity of mind or
body; or
(e) has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as
the State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner.
(4) If the State Chief Information Commissioner or a State Information Commissioner in any way,
concerned or interested in any contract or agreement made by or on behalf of the Government of the State
or participates in any way in the profit thereof or in any benefit or emoluments arising therefrom
otherwise than as a member and in common with the other members of an incorporated company, he
shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), be deemed to be guilty of misbehaviour.
CHAPTER V
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONS, APPEAL AND PENALTIES
18. Powers and functions of Information Commissions.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act,
it shall be the duty of the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case
may be, to receive and inquire into a complaint from any person,-
1. Subs. by Act 24 of 2019, s. 3, for sub-section (5), (w.e.f. 24-10-2019).
14
(ci) who has been unable to submit a request to a Central Public Information Officer or State
Public Information Officer, as the case may be, either by reason that no such officer has been
appointed under this Act, or because the Central Assistant Public Information Officer or State
Assistant Public Information Officer, as the case may be, has refused to accept his or her application
for information or appeal under this Act for forwarding the same to the Central Public Information
Officer or State Public Information Officer or senior officer specified in sub-section (1) of section 19
or the Central Information Commission or the State Information Commission, as the case may be;
(b) who has been refused access to any information requested under this Act;
(c) who has not been given a response to a request for information or access to information within
the time limit specified under this Act;
(d) who has been required to pay an amount of fee which he or she considers unreasonable;
(e) who believes that he or she has been given incomplete, misleading or false information under
this Act; and
(1) in respect of any other matter relating to requesting or obtaining access to records under this
Act.
(2) Where the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may
be, is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to inquire into the matter, it may initiate an inquiry in
respect thereof.
(3) The Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, shall,
while inquiring into any matter under this section, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court
while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), in respect of the following
matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of persons and compel them to give oral or written
evidence on oath and to produce the documents or things;
(b) requiring the discovery and inspection of documents;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavit;
(ci) requisitioning any public record or copies thereof from any court or office;
(e) issuing summons for examination of witnesses or documents; and
(j) any other matter which may be prescribed.
(4) Notwithstanding anything inconsistent contained in any other Act of Parliament or State
Legislature, as the case may be, the Central Information Commission or the State Information
Commission, as the case may be, may, during the inquiry of any complaint under this Act, examine any
record to which this Act applies which is under the control of the public authority, and no such record
may be withheld from it on any grounds.
19. Appeal.—(1) Any person who, does not receive a decision within the time specified in
sub-section (1) or clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 7, or is aggrieved by a decision of the Central
Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, may within thirty days
from the expiry of such period or from the receipt of such a decision prefer an appeal to such officer who
is senior in rank to the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer as the case
may be, in each public authority:
Provided that such officer may admit the appeal after the expiry of the period of thirty days if he or
she is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2) Where an appeal is preferred against an order made by a Central Public Information Officer or a
State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, under section 11 to disclose third party information,
the appeal by the concerned third party shall be made within thirty days from the date of the order.
15
(3) A second appeal against the decision under sub-section (1) shall lie within ninety days from the
date on which the decision should have been made or was actually received, with the Central Information
Commission or the State Information Commission:
Provided that the Central Information Commission or the State Information Commission, as the case
may be, may admit the appeal after the expiry of the period of ninety days if it is satisfied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(4) If the decision of the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as
the case may be, against which an appeal is preferred relates to information of a third party, the Central
Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, shall give a reasonable
opportunity of being heard to that third party.
(5) In any appeal proceedings, the onus to prove that a denial of a request was justified shall be on the
Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, who denied
the request.
(6) An appeal under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be disposed of within thirty days of the
receipt of the appeal or within such extended period not exceeding a total of forty-five days from the date
of filing thereof as the case may be, for reasons to be recorded in writing.
(7) The decision of the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the
case may be, shall be binding.
(8) In its decision, the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case
may be, has the power to—
(a) require the public authority to take any such steps as may be necessary to secure compliance
with the provisions of this Act, including—
(i) by providing access to information, if so requested, in a particular form;
(ii) by appointing a Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as
the case may be;
(iii) by publishing certain information or categories of information;
(iv) by making necessary changes to its practices in relation to the maintenance, management
and destruction of records;
(v) by enhancing the provision of training on the right to information for its officials;
(vi) by providing it with an annual report in compliance with clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 4;
(b) require the public authority to compensate the complainant for any loss or other detriment
suffered;
(c) impose any of the penalties provided under this Act;
(d) reject the application.
(9) The Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, shall
give notice of its decision, including any right of appeal, to the complainant and the public authority.
(10) The Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be,
shall decide the appeal in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
20. Penalties.—(1) Where the Central Information Commission or the State Information Commission,
as the case may be, at the time of deciding any complaint or appeal is of the opinion that the Central
Public Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, has, without any
reasonable cause, refused to receive an application for information or has not furnished information
within the time specified under sub-section (1) of section 7 or malafidely denied the request for
information or knowingly given incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroyed information
which was the subject of the request or obstructed in any manner in fumishing the information, it shall
16
impose a penalty of two hundred and fifty rupees each day till application is received or information is
furnished, so however, the total amount of such penalty shall not exceed twenty-five thousand rupees:
Provided that the Central Public Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer, as the
case may be, shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard before any penalty is imposed on
him:
Provided further that the burden of proving that he acted reasonably and diligently shall be on the
Central Public Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer, as the case may be.
(2) Where the Central Information Commission or the State Information Commission, as the case
may be, at the time of deciding any complaint or appeal is of the opinion that the Central Public
Information Officer or the State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, has, without any
reasonable cause and persistently, failed to receive an application for information or has not furnished
information within the time specified under sub-section (1) of section 7 or malafidely denied the request
for information or knowingly given incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroyed
information which was the subject of the request or obstructed in any manner in furnishing the
information, it shall recommend for disciplinary action against the Central Public Information Officer or
the State Public Information Officer, as the case may be, under the service rules applicable to him.
CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS
21. Protection of action taken in good faith.—No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall
lie against any person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or
any rule made thereunder.
22. Act to have overriding effect.—The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding
anything inconsistent therewith contained in the Official Secrets Act, 1923 (19 of 1923), and any other
law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.
23. Bar of jurisdiction of courts.—No court shall entertain any suit, application or other proceeding
in respect of any order made under this Act and no such order shall be called in question otherwise than
by way of an appeal under this Act.
24. Act not to apply in certain organisations.—(1) Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the
intelligence and security organisations specified in the Second Schedule, being organisations established
by the Central Government or any information furnished by such organisations to that Government:
Provided that the information pertaining to the allegations of corruption and human rights violations
shall not be excluded under this sub-section:
Provided further that in the case of information sought for is in respect of allegations of violation of
human rights, the information shall only be provided after the approval of the Central Information
Commission, and notwithstanding anything contained in section 7, such information shall be provided
within forty-five days from the date of the receipt of request.
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule by
including therein any other intelligence or security organisation established by that Government or
omitting therefrom any organisation already specified therein and on the publication of such notification,
such organisation shall be deemed to be included in or, as the case may be, omitted from the Schedule.
(3) Every notification issued under sub-section (2) shall be laid before each House of Parliament.
(4) Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to such intelligence and security organisation being
organisations established by the State Government, as that Government may, from time to time, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify:
Provided that the information pertaining to the allegations of corruption and human rights violations
shall not be excluded under this sub-section:
17
Provided further that in the case of information sought for is in respect of allegations of violation of
human rights, the information shall only be provided after the approval of the State Information
Commission and, notwithstanding anything contained in section 7, such information shall be provided
within forty-five days from the date of the receipt of request.
(5) Every notification issued under sub-section (4) shall be laid before the State Legislature.
25. Monitoring and reporting.—(1) The Central Information Commission or State Information
Commission, as the case may be, shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each year, prepare a report
on the implementation of the provisions of this Act during that year and forward a copy thereof to the
appropriate Government.
(2) Each Ministry or Department shall, in relation to the public authorities within their jurisdiction,
collect and provide such information to the Central Information Commission or State Information
Commission, as the case may be. as is required to prepare the report under this section and comply with
the requirements concerning the furnishing of that information and keeping of records for the purposes of
this section.
(3) Each report shall state in respect of the year to which the report relates,—
(a) the number of requests made to each public authority;
(b) the number of decisions where applicants were not entitled to access to the documents
pursuant to the requests, the provisions of this Act under which these decisions were made and the
number of times such provisions were invoked;
(c) the number of appeals referred to the Central Information Commission or State Information
Commission, as the case may be, for review, the nature of the appeals and the outcome of the appeals;
(d) particulars of any disciplinary action taken against any officer in respect of the administration
of this Act;
(e) the amount of charges collected by each public authority under this Act;
(J) any facts which indicate an effort by the public authorities to administer and implement the
spirit and intention of this Act;
(g) recommendations for reform, including recommendations in respect of the particular public
authorities, for the development, improvement, modernisation, reform or amendment to this Act or
other legislation or common law or any other matter relevant for operationalising the right to access
information.
(4) The Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, may, as soon as practicable
after the end of each year, cause a copy of the report of the Central Information Commission or the State
Information Commission, as the case may be, referred to in sub-section (1) to be laid before each House
of Parliament or, as the case may be, before each House of the State Legislature, where there are two
Houses, and where there is one House of the State Legislature before that House.
(5) If it appears to the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case
may be, that the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act
does not conform with the provisions or spirit of this Act, it may give to the authority a recommendation
specifying the steps which ought in its opinion to be taken for promoting such conformity.
26. Appropriate Government to prepare programmes.—(1) The appropriate Government may, to
the extent of availability of financial and other resources,—
(a) develop and organise educational programmes to advance the understanding of the public, in
particular of disadvantaged communities as to how to exercise the rights contemplated under this Act;
(b) encourage public authorities to participate in the development and organisation of
programmes referred to in clause (a) and to undertake such programmes themselves;
(c) promote timely and effective dissemination of accurate information by public authorities
about their activities; and
18
(d) train Central Public Information Officers or State Public Infomrntion Officers, as the case may
be, of public authorities and produce relevant training materials for use by the public authorities
themselves.
(2) The appropriate Government shall, within eighteen months from the commencement of this Act,
compile in its official language a guide containing such information, in an easily comprehensible form
and manner, as may reasonably be required by a person who wishes to exercise any right specified in this
Act.
(3) The appropriate Government shall, if necessary, update and publish the guidelines referred to in
sub-section (2) at regular intervals which shall, in particular and without prejudice to the generality of
sub-section (2), include—
(a) the objects of this Act;
(b) the postal and street address, the phone and fax number and, if available, electronic mail
address of the Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may
be, of every public authority appointed under sub-section (1) of section 5;
(c) the manner and the form in which request for access to an information shall be made to a
Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the case may be;
(ci) the assistance available from and the duties of the Central Public Information Officer or State
Public Information Officer, as the case may be, of a public authority under this Act;
(e) the assistance available from the Central Information Commission or State Information
Commission, as the case may be;
(j) all remedies in law available regarding an act or failure to act in respect of a right or duty
conferred or imposed by this Act including the manner of filing an appeal to the Commission;
(g) the provisions providing for the voluntary disclosure of categories of records in accordance
with section 4;
(Ii) the notices regarding fees to be paid in relation to requests for access to an information; and
(i) any additional regulations or circulars made or issued in relation to obtaining access to an
information in accordance with this Act.
(4) The appropriate Government must, if necessary, update and publish the guidelines at regular
intervals.
27. Power to make rules by appropriate Government.—(1) The appropriate Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.
(2) Tn particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—
(a) the cost of the medium or print cost price of the materials to be disseminated under subsection (4) of section 4;
(b) the fee payable under sub-section (1) of section 6;
(c) the fee payable under sub-sections (1) and (5) of section 7;
'[(Ca) the term of office of the Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners
under sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 13 and the State Chief Information Commissioner and State
Information Commissioners under sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 16;
(cb) the salaries, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the Chief Information
Commissioner and the Information Commissioners under sub-section (5) of section 13 and the State
Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information Commissioners under sub-section (5) of
section 16;]
1. Ins, by Act 24 of 2019, s. 4, (w.e.f 24-10-20 19).
19
(ci) the salaries and allowances payable to and the terms and conditions of service of the officers
and other employees under sub-section (6) of section 13 and sub-section (6) of section 16;
(e) the procedure to be adopted by the Central Information Commission or State Information
Commission, as the case may be, in deciding the appeals under sub-section (10) of section 19; and
(I) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.
28. Power to make rules by competent authority.—(1) The competent authority may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to cany out the provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—
(i) the cost of the medium or print cost price of the materials to be disseminated under sub-section
(4) of section 4;
(ii) the fee payable under sub-section (1) of section 6;
(iii) the fee payable under sub-section (1) of section 7; and
(iv) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.
29. Laying of rules.—(/) Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period
of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid,
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may
be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule.
(2) Every rule made under this Act by a State Government shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
notified, before the State Legislature.
30. Power to remove difficulties.—(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of
this Act, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appear to it to be necessaiy or expedient for removal of
the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the date of
the commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each
House of Parliament.
31. Repeal.—The Freedom of Information Act, 2002(5 of 2003) is hereby repealed.
20
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
[See sections 13 (3) and 16(3)]
FORM OF OATH OR AFFIRMATION TO BE MADE BY THE CHIEF INFORMATION COMMISSIONER. THE
INFORMATION COMMISSIONER/THE STATE CHIEF INFORMATION COMMISSIONER/THE STATE
INFORMATION COMMISSIONER
I. having been appointed Chief Information Comrnissioner'Information
Commissioner/State Chief Information Commissioner State Information Commissioner
swear in the name of God that I will bear tnae faith and allegiance to the
solemnly affirm
Constitution of India as by law established, that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India, that I
will duly and faithfully and to the best of my ability, knowledge and judgment perform the duties of my
office without fear or favour, affection or ill-will and that I will uphold the Constitution and the laws.".
21
THE SECOND SCHEDLTLE
(See section 24)
INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ORGANISATION ESTABLISHED BY THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
1. Intelligence Bureau.
s[2. Research and Analysis Wing including its technical wing namely, the Aviation Research Centre of the
Cabinet Secretariat.]
3. Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.
4. Central Economic Intelligence Bureau.
5. Directorate of Enforcement.
6. Narcotics Control Bureau.
9[7.* * * * *1
s[8. Special Frontier Force.]
9. Border Security Force.
10. Central Reserve Police Force.
11. Indo-Tibetan Border Police.
12. Central Industrial Security Force.
13. National Security Guards.
14. Assam Rifles.
i[15.Sashtra Seema Bal.]
2[16. Directorate General of Income-tax (Investigation).]
2[17. National Technical Research Organisation.]
2[18. Financial Intelligence Unit, India.]
3[19. Special Protection Group.
20. Defence Research and Development Organisation.
21. Border Road Development Board.
4* * * * *]
5[22. National Security Council Secretariat.]
c423. Central Bureau of Investigation.]
o[24. National investigation Agency.]
o{25. National Intelligence Grid.]
7[26. Strategic Forces Command.]
1. Subs. by notification No. G.S.R. 347, dated 28-9-2005
2. Subs. by notification No. G.S.R. 235(E) dated 27-3-2008
3. Ins, by notification No. G.S.R. 347, dated 28-9-2005
4. Omitted by G.S.R. 235(E) dated 27-3-2008
5. Added by notification No.G.S.R. 726(E), dated 8-10-2008
6. Added by notification No. G.S.R. 442(E), dated 9-6-201 1
7. Added by notification No. G.S.R. 673(E), dated 8-7-20 16
8. Subs. by notification No. G.S.R. 253, dated 4-5-2021
9. Omitted by notification No. G.S.R. 253, dated 4-5-2021
liriff *moil*
alk ITZT •ux 1°14
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
T1111 ThT 3TffiTh-TR" aff, 2005
(2005 5t aReizriT *is. 22)
[I Trot 2011 of 712TTftEPT19]
Right to Information Act, 2005
(Act No. 22 of 2005)
[As modified up to 1st February, 2011]
2011
ITIP;r4W9TIM *ItctiR liMq, fITR) td, 002 -gRT 1ST .0EIY
RR7 *Raw, fed9 fc't-110 054 71T lictlifkid I
(t7TA) : 23.00; ( c:Rkff 14) £ 0.33 NT $ 0.47
mitIETRO
ch I aTf4fkzFr, 2005
(2005 MT &RAWL 1-1(9-140 22)
[1 th7dt, 2011 MI V 19]
Right to Information Act, 2005
(Act No. 22 of 2005)
[As modified up to 1st February, 2011]
Ministry of Houle Affairs
LifiRAR Y
Acc.ttotnd.32.-.6g1
Date 51241dli.k...-1
111cttpel-1
if Th-T 3TRITTR.aalika#, 2005 ThT tff :13:ZWitrf it#Tft a # Cana wTEr t i Te
ThT Zint 1TTU ailz TAW i6t tird 1 115T4t, 2011 n art ran I
rd-41 ;
1 Wine, 2011
failc wilt( will,
nfla, %TN *mu( I
3114ZI5R 3n4ftzfli, 2005
9-Rr3ff wr TIT
31121TZI 1
1411 co
1. 71-WRF frf, fkRER 31tR.ATt8
2. EFRITITIN
31‘118 2
irRi 4i adrOri aft 715 siimiRä tI cutocog
3. atfirt-R
4. ci WfaTI:#11 SI co cog
5. ci 4) ti1 Sitol tam oqifiii
6. toir aftrsrov cN;r eac arViti
7. arera 5T Th4c.Kr
8. gw-d vr4
co ger thficii trn faR 3rityra * antirz
10. cotrcultocir
11. TIZ urRer
31WIRI 3
41a vim aualrt
12. cIk14 twit atroliT 5T irdff
13. Tgrat atm taT 711
14. tkcpir 311W Tif Iptr gri11 WWI 5T *cliff .19T
3TEURI 4
ir41
15. IT 'c1,zP1i auto 5T Trd -
16. wet att( Aar ml Tra
1
1
3
3
4
5
6
7
8
8
8
9
9
10
11
12
TM/ Th7 3frOWaffillf24
71
7f, 2005
17. 3TT4jWI
i atiqf tiiirt
trs
13
.<1•30 laVf 1, if 311r1 71.3M1
GTS5TZI 5
34M i auarrl m`t ath Ter,
18.
13
1 3flff f1t T
14
19. 3ititF
15
20.
3ThZIM 6
wthlof
21.
v
-Tfr
-drur met Trt mricat fa7 'toy' 16
16
22. 31W1
117 T zitzrrtra 9'414 a if
16
23. e4Iile14.4 Mei 3T1x5Tit1T
24.
16
31 9 atm tfizt cll L9 0-tr
17
25. izirAte ttfl AR.Rtflt astir
26.
17
iiird \t<cni ai I ch140 1-1t
1TR itTfT ii r
27.
18
Thtiet 4114 Mel illPa tWOit vilar
19
28. Pw 4-114 Mgt Tian 91ffiTh-T% mrt
19
29. Th7FI
si. Thl RUT
30.
19
coRritvi Thst 7 4n4
19
31. F4TiT9. trOt 31
Wr
20
21
3rTe
viril 3TRWR 3TRAMT 2005
(2005tT5T 3TRAZ111 iitsuich 22)
[15 %7, 2005]
TOM 0, Rae* eitiwor 4 to 4 or AT 66141 6:( t t ?AR, *'rw Remit* *
Aziwrititg Ira um* ifalita*-74 fk7 -11 , 1144;i* trit* tl
ague' sutler =mit liautita*-14, Tes cW410-41 311thr1 74T
wmi tiro ay.& 7,T 7r3q Th-f4 at• 3-40 *lad zrt
fair* 1S13Vah1
aftif4Er4
irro*ztramTMlmcmc94, 41.m.tr met t ;
3t4 6)4n11 Firrud Th4T ltit TN( a1 Trwaar aR arhfr mtnr t, tni* 4 itfcv<°i
u2tr vizrrwR `r.*4 * felt aft t-(*rt err \34 Inctrvii aT xiitr t * TO- 3rk<141 4-114 *
zifkar4 t ;
aTYR- uitnfa4i ciici6K 4 r t ar- r cilcp f4-4"* ataitu Tr{art
3171--a7, difkr tivr Td fila tiTTENI t alwaTr 646 IT Az rich-Rflet to-r aR 4ht41elo1
en t, a zrr2r Wig t tiont t ;
cilcociiricr) anti tt u it* toa 1717 ?Omit artiir 3irawra t ;
317:, 37 zit t 4# tiliR0)-ti, gaga fa7, tSal7r4 rtEgt t
711-44 f4)41 vilq• ;
7f49 9uNiv4 S buila f*.ifZifect wi 4 irg aftrizrftru t
i
vr{filtrw
1. 7arra 4r4, atk wt4—(1) r zarftzFr a r tRitzr RT4 to it *r aiftt-R 3TRreAtni,
2005 t
(2) aa'r 14377 ui cn 1 t 6v4 Riii4 69:F 7179 t I
(3) EMT 4 ' cl• 37tITRT (1), UTZ 5 Thet 74991 (1) 3117 37IT7 (2), WU 12, '417 13, KITE 15, 61-4
16, 617 24, WC 27 atR 41-4 28 t 7444 gt9 517 3 3ifizFr t4 7447 1-flt
aarftzr4a sr* liti4 ftff' ;r-v t
2. xneuttikir-Vi 3a1z449 T, 74 647 ft #414 ti 31- P.TT 31,41499a tit -
(7) "Wir47 4,7W14" ti Will 4t ci)47 liA4nuf M 744 # 7'1 -
(i) nYu 66m ITT t-Er 4T71*4 Tra179 wriku, ifdcr, tt* Tarftmtit9,
Th-LETITTEit9 'ER 3S silt sr mar .Racr T1 ar amma wzra-e4 cfr(I Trt ThWi Krt triv
Ticr 911411-dcr Iona vtior t *-41-4 66PN• 33%19 t ;
,fl”,z1 tp<cw gif Tellfern, ifdd 3 i tart a, f=44-writil7 ar we* akr sr-mr
ITT \3 4 c1,2T M-4* "ITt fAtei 3TRIF * fdtPi1Rd ftifi undl
.9'<4hk 3-TRBO t;
(i
) "t-tzr aiiztm" tl Erki 12 51 wittrz (i) artih irita *-4tzr t T T ztrzfrir
7R517 t ;
* 12 51-0V% 2005 I
tpirtf WI.ST 31fiAn, 2005
(3It7771 1-S 0
(t) "nzi of cb 3artlt" t 34tIRF (1) t 314M 44I *el vi co 7-9-r
aars-r%1 arftem t at-54-a ETRI 5 Mei \ititi (2) SiM ON a Cr)) t---zr
115140 Act) V41.&RN-% 1ft t ;
(1:) "TAT 31171W"3f1t "TF9T 31TW" ETRI-12 Thei .39tikt (3) 3Ttirff ffilpt
laIgLE sizpr 1173iss anisr Mirka ;
"i149.1 SaWit" t 31ftra.t-
(i) Acr) tri(r ur iWt SI fdtm TPIT Thci /IF Fen tt
•`11 ttT 4xi1 z1 amirs afrt ti‘str .<1 ∎ MI) it9N trItsrc Si cc 4 inrcrit ;
(ii) dtan -triqmil St sat-4 4Ru $r TR( rrzr-l4 ;
\itel rermiept St szt z1 \Jar .rizrierg zrr fc ;
(iv) tirdErr-r grtr zit ziTS SI wrizru zrr ar- r 3411<tro.4 4Ylf z1, alt,
Ritscslift zrr '<0.74441 ;
(v) * 31-1-444 239 3TEN Tht:td IRITTW ;
"vir" ftt Oct5,11;4,Tic' 4 Erf4d &R OW, 4 Ovr, vrg-r, t-47, iu, tIC11*,
fra, trftn, 31.1k7F, tit4T, Mt, 1uP-1 , lat , MS(4, 31ini itSft wiTre•t art-i
fS74 wrik t tithe tift 7-9) to, f it azfi 001.14 5;7 f tf1 3r- r f4f4t aTEitff
14,411 do) utfcmqt mar trn Tiwer t fsffr sq.4 <014 3,(Feit arftrsff t
(u) "ftftd" tr, 4a, Tillita 'Mc1)1•C zrr ,(14,4 srfirst grit affilrfkarr arEftff atilt
Trq Pevii faft-d aritft t ;
(t) "Act) ~t"
fl ill Wit* 7.1fM ;
(e) ti,(14:grir 491 Trt fs-ift at-4r Witt WRI ;
(7) fatli-f-145ef grw 9-114 Trt ?sift 3174 f grit ;
(Er) -friittu tut' gRF 7134 MI lit 31Rnriff n %-7 q W471 akl, tw,fda ZIT I
t )1 4 vritrst zi) Thsrzr zrr tattlyr 7w-sr% Rt-{en aatru t
artT
ct *If MMT4 t tilffit *Nog * ZIT WiTM URI
srczrer zrr arg- re tnv tr 34C4 l stir Trt f tff7u1 gRr wrRIF zu t farARcr t ;
(ii) 414 1),•41f 117--tNc01% ti 4 10-1 t I wpm tvonR
gkr AMET zll arsrms zT t1 wrwer-T s7r4 ffif?ral gva wrRItu tie t1 fdrvlf cf S
(v) "ar-f4---(4" z1 Th-Prraftru 7rfetedu 5--
(s) <IN q.,cria.r, urn a4R-wria ;
(i1) PWdt •Rs-d--q set slt aftign-t-fa.sift ;
(4) till HI*011-4)eit # ,(1Pft,c vrfaftrEr zrr 341-014•iI are ylt)(1-114,f Siffu sEr
tin a -t);34-q
(Er) fs-ift ct>aiC gRT Tut fS-{fr 3TR Rt gp(r \3rlddaSrt 31-41 tTr ;
RFT' 31firaT 31fOrag, 2005 3
(31aIRT 1--SWAS I 3124177 3111IWT 311V of)cp Howt azro
• M "37ffi air 3TRISR" t art 3rfirn-zr4 3TEitff tip zrlizr tom t-r, q'r Act)
41.ir zrr 3zr* fkzEWIRIM En t. 3araR 3 t 3rg7 jeffill PkriffZIcr
tilThfcr
T-14, trdwi, 304-`dit tr rfita-uT ;
(ii) atcridvii ur 34fktht featur, zrr grafku vredit *9.r ;
(iii) wrrfirra .11,4 c)-1r ;
(iv) it-47, Trwrt, fritz4 Viz •wz 4 TIT fat% 31w1 cmiRcp In 4 zrr
3r13z M Trrurrr z1 z1-4-9-r ‘oi 1131379T %it crs.00-zrr ?eft arm d #
#uurr4u t arfkirrir cbtir ;
(z) ¶19T alltr t EINT 15 apt WEEIRT (1) S 3TE117 Midi twf n Nit 31filtrd
t ;
"rive Vi 1U'1r 3117Tf" 3117 "•<ivtf iFT 31Tyr EITt 15 St nivzikf (3) S 3TElt9.
n74 11ar Rrtr-gr 3rrs-oz 3r17 r‘Ar u tkpt •<1 arrswr arfitu t ;
(z) ".<Ntr erly, arfSt" t WTEIRT (1) * 3117 Ligifiad ei)cr) 'RFT 3araft
*Fifa.* 3117TiT* 3td-TIV ETRE 5 St 3ITEITt (2) * &IR traNta. ,<Ntf *ivico Act)
arfitrwrt ift t ;
(A "w ail*" t 31-wir * f'67 3P%EI cry<4 al -iiiRm t f49 cr> trI3z arftz $7
tfrt aiu4u Acr, wrItr-t-t Iftt
aisum 2
3TRWV 31'h cb Su cat el .t Witzr0
3. iir4-1( MT aiffirPTIT 39174 M 31*i .<6t=r zit -rrirRict)I ipffT Sr
arrwa-R 61iir
4. ta an act wrm lq--(1) liacm —
arfkkRti t'r 11 ,444) Inv t Rncrl'ad3117ar-witzrr-t--R-4 l 3117
q'r TiT 3irft4 v9-r aft 3s-t7 titor t 3ilz Rp- -Wa cbk, ir
Tit 3TRI*R31. q‘r qhtLari fkq 1/4114 tiPuf cl acf r Hu t 4Izz 3117 tiTIWi Thct
zzrelzra-r arq1-9- ,<dr ACT, crhvacpct aftz- fer9 zrz Tizgit ksr 4-zzS t
tissr.5t itzit f lit aTftr-a•Er cm, zrr z trim ticb ;
(u) 3iftfari a 31-fe4zITH t lm 711 -e ftff t —
(i) t iId4 tcr Mftrfftzrt, cpca 3117 ear ;
(ii) arq# arft-trIW attz 04-4041i trt YiIIkinf attz- ttur ;
(iii) faRtru cm.? ai vitzrr aft wig cric41 fq3:1# trlikauf
\i-ckgifirc-cr a ITESEPT aregu ;
(iv) an* Ititff S 1/4 '04 a zwrffra
(v) am* &irT zrr 37E4 ThzhaurrEth tuRd zrr 3yr4 tir er 3174i1 *
fq szztrzr ihqzrc f)ep-r, Thflz-r, 3r sT, nacor 3117 aritazr ; -
(vi) -(rt q'r zw*grt trrftz zrr 3ff* ThRtiuTFEiti SFOTII a5T ftaTzr ;
(vii) itt trowerr aR fttfitzrr, 41 zet1 41-rd t`t amir TIT .ir1U corzli-cm-r
7f-04 4 ,r.rcir t t-c-ed t trzrxrt *%c zrr gPa 311-7ftff fasoli-r ;
trilt r 3iftisivaifilftzift, 2005
(WIN 2-1-4-41 SI 31ft13W 30 each liAcht04 enEelcus.p
4151, 4N41, *IfQ 31- 1 ffisr* *, ftt4 * ZIT Gift (44
ItTtr wirt 4PREci 4 t 41k 4 * yew *Ity Traff ftt Trzu t 31tz wit
ark 4 ft our z9 41E1, aft lif*?41 a1Tz 31--4f f4trt aqtat ,4-tar * itq ifilt
TIT trift tad.Ssritp.act) wear St VI tPft, ThtUtuf ;
(ix) 3n4 3TfirSTRzfl aitz croittIRtii a#1 fA41014:r ;
(x) aftrk sOrz5 afrutt aitR-wit-t€1 *Rf grkf 4itflam trtforfka, finch 3t s i
wfati- tt sfura Ot t 13it Thntlea 4 ;
(xi) Tr* eilumfat, IPtarfdd aitii ftIT tt tif4or4
‘iv4fficr szNk 317-4 sr-e!R5 affsft-iur mitiRxr toic ;
(xii) TIZTRiset 4,1404 Pian44fS tra M-frif atria Rift 47 tilt awfstsI
 * (e0 ttPracr f;
(xiii) aft -4 91.<1 394U RtiMal, 39 t trt grlize* * grftrtutall S ?Mitt ;
(xiv) ft-At Ric 4 ittair * *LOT 4 allk31 3acp1 vErRal * at
grw tuf4a 1 ;
(xv) Naar attfrtv m.<4 *1367 444,1- t-1- vcw-dEf Vomit e mat,
ft& Tecublei4 Zff grief SET a?, -afk wilt( * thy argftra t ft, 4,144rm tit
tifaifcf t ,
(xvi) 0$14, Saar Srf4t * wrif, tr-c4Fr 3ft aff f4ftWat ;
(xvii) area faro e 7R,
cni CRtItclid T SWRir91* sOrt a* 4 3rtra7 If ;
(3-0 Tfrotpt troti f4R-49-r mtcl wig ATI WE faflnitii 5 }41quir cr, a .994, 71 v1-101
1141ftd gra ti, ct) 4 11 ;
(Er) ¶Wfk salt ank -€4111Kboo4 14nradf *ffic cokur ‘iticittf m<14 1 11
(2) TrMs elm arftreqt air 1 a vzrre 5)-Trf ft -4-5-34kii,5 (1) * as (35) aR 3045311
arleg ta)va tr, uticir S f;q1Act ar-al-u. * ft-*.f -mum A f)eich 3t Fa
t, Eaeft aTfrs nigeic 4,<14 * fac 3, 14 M7r* ft upicif arl tkarrr *
ffig rff aff4f4ET m-rwritrm-ff (-11 tit i
(3) utrefr-i-(i) tsfer-A7* 5,zr Z1 Sit Ater aft In 4 At rf4a
f`4)4r ufrior * fac ‘95,4 trn 4144
(4) Will *II 1-I tit Th"); eivild Marar, ivirAtzt WriT 311R.37 Ea 4 af- k mut 4-4%
ter EZIN 4 ,<tsa 7, waiRci ft4f 9T, *--41-4 0,14, Tilt 3iftrwrgt za '<tug
et cr) Saar aartrt * tIRT 4-5,A ch 9T 4 tilicf ifkr IREZiri ai tuft CIlliCt IR ITT
101Iguf eilfid scrlfd tR t1t a St wig, 116.1 wr tr--dEf 4114 tr-41 wity I
4eff--3Litill (3) 30 34trrZr (4) * tralvt fay, * taahf =RA tifirctlflif,
co \35t1 wait 411-34a mitt, 4cc ZIT Will af- r ft14-ftift elm vrfirtr* *
c igjvi4j aiT fAINTof eP:Acf t wear S toir S wife* tif zfr itinu 4ruil *au t
5. alas' t 31RISIF4Z4 aiT tr<M4—(1) wo!rt Mlm sert-rt re-affereilm * afftnw
ftff t Ac *111-34mtA4) cte ZIT dtidi 31Ift9 01446141 4, imilafa-, c u citch to if 3TIti5TR*
/11 taut' ellcb tktlir Sr** wr 4 304 afRreftt S ad f i iznalf, fc-14 Ott 30rfo-ii t 31th
Ita-ft * %c-31--em cr)t) arA THE 5417 cot'r*fq ZWIFFS g I
Vrtel-nt
VirIT 5T alfeWf 31fitIMT1=T, 2005 5
631Ez171 2—VWWI mr 31fft7T 3tfr cacti mitawozif m9 4TE2iffici 0
(2) 3EITIRT (1) * 117 Ardr. SPIN 514 R-11, 3T t5 elm sriftmit, flf 3anZITT
3arra#9. 1ita3 ?met arft-m-rt m-1 st-&m strfiser *ck zrr ar- r wtr ?a to.< tR
zwr*ra, flu tivLicr, elmTotf siftm- -1r zn f el f 1161 10 Act) TL-49f arft-m-rt * r z1 re
aafiRTi 3114 aframcff zrr &Oa. wie cr)S- octia, zra, mItzt er14,
arft-mrt of ever At t srlt-m-rt ZIT twr 15 Mr twit Wm- f4ftftz ciRto arft-mrst
in mt- rzr wr &Rh-Tr sprat .<itor r were mt * * tr-qrftro cr)kdir
trt ffm .re v9f Tif 3TTrtT cP) 3Tikqi, TR-TiRtift, Witt flzr ‘,15mcr) elmTiw9f
3iftwit.zrr ft-ift '<I's trnizict? Act) TO-41 3TfilThlt ThIr Reif wlnl t clef MT 7 Thrt WIETTRT (1) 3.47
ftftrcre- svw fak are mR ei rvltil cNt trfw ft-1. Mt artft ,414 1wrsuft
(3) zra,;r&-m
*-4171 cilt ur 3areht TIT •<lvtf Act) Vffi 30mt, 3T9T met
1(4 arWit# arettr tw Merr atW ei1 r MI zrfn cryo'r tit careir Mr -sfarpe
c11111-1 ct) 4 11 I
(4) zfa, Act) 1,-air 3INTWt, 1 ffi 3FT 3IftrWit met ii6leiclf Mt Trig mzerr,
fe at ant T-- if STire ftto * aricwzur) *1.11 I
(5) m16 sant, f" \i“.61 etrErwr (4) * Wit ,e1Ritir 1161 t UFO.te1W-Rif 1I5 41(r
M%-- 11/ elm V9T arferwrt zrr ts4 cam rr sarm-rt Mr wilt ezieldr SI4N 4 4 11 3117
re Sr * erf-Mti M tuft \icrit“ S1Zhq-9't fltc el sr R:r sarm-rt Mr, Zia, zr
14, TEitf sift-m-rt ZIT .<1 veT CI) ch V91 31Rn—it tfri$11 ywir I
6. noir eft2pa fA7 ar-Ittf—(1) co) al* w'r 3P-117 ct)
3Tf#SEN1 cntir 1 dr t, ratra- tn. (,.Ictv1;ct,Va'f 111 2Ff Sin TIT fib # ZIT th‘f elm Met
arrt-ct fave 7-gr t, eqtrErr ir ter mte t ere, q'r fro Mr
(m) Wfla elm sgtmor M-41-zr elm it-49f 3114w% zrr i‘Ar elm vffi•
;
(er) zra, flre .(15ricr, elm rr 3Tflm zrr elver tr6itcr) elm zj1r 3#4-t-Tt,
T1', wilt gi'd Hi 1 11 zr zit Thct ftftlitrzri a ma ar-itt mart
trtq avert %fere k 161 fbzlt wr tiocir t flzr elmRmi sift-mit
zrr elm T4tf sam-rt sr-tEr ctnr alcl ad(3d Mr wilt -rargdkr tiwrcir erm .b-tr
?wee ft 3e1 14)elf WI \'Ic) I
(2) WI fc refg mel ITC(' 3TraT . 31-49f m-r avert crw4 ffiq Wet mkur Mr VI
?twit ar- r cet% , icr on- Mr, femq twit wet etr-4 crr<4 it arruzrm t4 Mt arr'ref ti
wrsuft
(3) yid, Mr- arr4-49. i'Met elm tracbit mt Wet tel.7#T * f w sr-0r c.Nr F femur \Mica
t
(i) ?Mel sr 4r elm mi trifta fr ; itt
f. tic1 Itzrzr-aid f fl 311 elm sifft-m-rt * zarm Th-m-d * z44tt t,
qtt, To- cam ult-mrt, fie ml err zfr-'4-4ff fmzrr vim! t, $ '3Tr a zIT WR:r* It ITT#m1,q't Tirgtd.
A WiT 31-R21 elm Rifart m1 Zia ct) 4 11 3117 4# 31MT:7 tqft z13Tr th art qkr 1\-411 kTIT :
t1-2q i6 I'm lei ttrure * ar-gwur ?met set-4t mr stawr eel-re-Re 7ft-dr zl l*Trr itg
111 ger * srr i 5rrlit Mt ffrterzl vim ftt * trard 9-61 fd)tir viva I
RirT4T Th7 3#Siv31fElflg4, 2005 6
(31E5TRI Th 7 31frIThi' afivencp mactuRen
7. 39-tTi m TvciYr—(1.) EMT 5 T1 WIETTRT (2) * 1117 TIT VERT 6 tt n14t11•4 (3) * tlt@T T
3417 .<5tIf r, tiM 6 T 3Tth 3TVIET * ANT 8V1 zfe-Tit, T-41-4 ci)co 7F-41 3Ifirtit ZIT •I n4
el aarwit, wurttativa-r t, 3ffz f ift Tzr # &Oa at strfit * cflY1 f4a * ter
Tate * data it 1"41taaR n111c, ZIT al r wrgra cr,, n ir ZIT art a ath anr s # fa-1'41'4,z
wrRuri# t tt-ifr <mut t ant al attftwR *tir :
atg vI51 HMI 'it v11-1c014 arr t4tT Wt cat *1Ia4 Tn tocilkir t t, at au area wm
*4* tuardta- Eit $ 111-m-tqt-ecr crnt4 trsuft
(2)41?„ zra, alto t'r* wr ,a.tr eil<t) r 3TRWT€I WIETRF (1) S attfta
ff4F4tz tat* IfitR- Y r * arItt 4z Id1;4 cw<4 # artrat ,<6or t al, attriWt, W-aa
cf) r 3114-t-t ZIT '<Ng enct, Saar arftim-t # Zit vIN41 f iY1 r at lIT S).971-7
a^ fdolt I
(3)A6r, V9T \imel&T cmi=1T`'t dind * icrit f4rdt 3M tnitt * *15141 tR tora turtea (1,414
wr RRt‘44 fit Am( t, cl5i ate, ntZT el)g) in &raft in •LIvef (1)0 Ygatit arf4wrt
cb.<4 cae• vzRet wt--
(w) twr* gkr trtiataa 1/434dttIch4 Thcr 3th *
YiIW ttrawr (1) * alEfta frut thtt * 31 iT1 .<cor Mcnier4 * Ri mct Tit tinur-ac , t4
ttt wt. Irt msr umr wRk a t rem cr,<r *ltYiYj it #thrt aftz tat twr * Nur
3M *it * tiqI4 * 414 turatt aver al tt tut # f4r& cfitr f Tat atafit it 14rvrit cm
*3:rafiwa* fit altrafkd fWar viN4r ;
(tr) sorrt3a. mitt *1 .<crifr WT .14cida w31TI4 -n* wtcr * ark 4, fif-E atatt afeftt
Paw% it fetfitar, .9 414 tlit, IcrWar *R. 014 ar- t vtur Ift f, Rflztut cbt)- wr tif4c4co-r
co.< * it411# W 311t1TR Yl ittiff T4-1T r, *fit *kora 4-t7TT I
(a) w5i , i 3affwr * atft 3rikt-e Zff 3TS 3{li41U urfk
fter a-da ttrarti ch,a4 WI4 t, YidaHrcH4 tcr t f4:7F€T t, (46r -amfitre& *44 ei
ill •Thx4 ctcr) wr wr do Lila ai ref 9H1 I * j I ‘11511 r tcrtra
fluor 451z1c11 04-11 1ft YifTlflcf t, t)-I
(5) vI5I, ip9T cis Tjltd.ZIT Wfft 4c44-5,Inct) Yagfdart # tatwwt.-4 t, auf taa*,
urreNt (6) aTtThT tOt Lbrltr wr cr).1r, tiltfret m miq :
ETRI 6 MI.311WRI (1) 3117 ETIT 7 Tr't 37.THf (1) AR ZINITRI (5) T 31Titff We.INT
l'Ialyer > a0 4-4 ar*LPE t, til ,INI ur*.f1-4c,•;Itt tilfta twin( gm 31.4n %Llf
∎41c, 4)\ 4 Ire RITIffd H it trceit I
(6) WIT.TNT (5) # f ft ara s F ch14 cilco Witiralt UMW (1) #
Pi wr ch.<4 artcat .<6or t aut * iclti area- ,:4'4 art mit *1- VITIK T Mir
‘314ctsf T-714 7Ica11 I
(7) i4EliI (1) T 31417 0)4' Rnzitf TA t Tra, fltzr tferwrst Zn t.o.r
oil0 3FIT 3#4-0-4 EMT 11 T ITR' all* gm 1-4,q Mk 3ltalt49 a# EzIM
(8) mi6i, 120-#1 3inET aTl 311tITRT (1) S 37-frff 31-Aird Ptir 17IT t, Wgi, 4 iIIAR t, TaT vi
r 3TR145-1t ZIT Y1•34 act) wr 344writ ar@tu iYa tac4 <dad
afffrtit TRui ;
(ii) aver, Itfr-*141 d7 ar#1--ed. *faig 04 zit& m`f in111;arlz
3alta yaw% Wt feetrat,
it-ina-ggi
Thl" 310Thif31feelzIlT, 2005 7
(WIN 2—V-41 Th7 3TrOMR- 31/T cal? SitiactniM Mei iviwTti
(9) Witt rt tTsTTRurdifT ‘341 AWf \34C1*-1 vii1/44 4 11, dif TOT' #41.t WM
f* of elm sirRora *'r afw-Ivrt wr t qtricf w 0.<dr T in TrwEru aff4- 4 *1'r wr aT
tem * scrrt-7 tr
8. irmt * see fkq aarnzryr afathe f i aTa * tik 7 lir, f*-41-
rri o f),--TRIRid ter waraf wei et-
(*) ipwr, 1=Rf-* stodw t ITRU Alyf 30 3tard'aT, Mcf wr, VirAtea, 611
ilT airritSfha, fte7f zl t4P-I t17 Tfed-p. FITT4 Er-4-df t ill f 5th 3fERrEf cb ,<i ThT -3-€179. eldT
(U) V9T, f Wqrff al fofft Nlerleer Tn SRuf Li1zl 3drdZWE t Thfk4- fd err
Ifar t zrr f s zl .qrreirci4m-r 3f-4Try filart;
(7) rr, itif* modi t titiq TrT itilt Ntf * tri oK*r MET wrf3a6 If ;
(4) 7-4T, t <t) ce1141 zicif Med* ti44r fitrfda 12-fr*
smza t itift IR all* Th, Affiznift ftt M-11 6)cif t W4 al fi TREITf lilracbra MT zru
zTTirEIr^ igf tr wdr t f tzft 70-9f * Er*-e7 t ThTstru elm ltd*f Triz217 61dr t ;
ftzft altar wiro`t )xcirRio wrt*# -41- wq7* twiiir, 7a mit tem oi
zr^ WITEITff t ,t11 3:0-ffT IfMe# t idea elm f6?.MT t#4# ?WI t ;
ftti fectt 'mow-t itrazi # 9-rtzr 379-r ;
(13) VT F -FM11 TIME.ctr<lf ittt uff&il * ZIT YARcn Tarr afi tzar T1 SIcl'If iff
fda sa-d-9-TITwr ge491* .fq-itrat '1 fo-ift rir TIT '661 1101 't1)C1 ti-E4F
cr) If ;
(V) V9T, f*-ift arcreztl*arkErErr, Er*t 7r-4 iff 3Tftrzrtq'i *c ll1 grr aistrirErtzft ;
(3T) M cr' 141‘414.M, f inliPtiS 3A-41 3tt afftwitt
3fird-ilf •tiPAcf I :
ER% zrt f fifEr tig * nnYaer, r ugr fiqt* arrEfR 'ER fdfd7Tler
fd,c Id1-<14 fd.) vi14 aflz fdEret * yr zrr iTriRt t * ER-4% "Mdl tr .z-ErFera co.<1\
vits :
ER% zit atR f* fdqu, si EfRr fdf tz 1ac1 t ataira afra.t, Irt—C fd.)ti viiq+1;
(7) wr, q'r ouRvtd zigwr t zftlira t, f.tror saw fszfr elm Th)irrocritr zrr fga -t
#4ET gig etch t Tn iaR t cbIddr >TZ anf-aszfw SRI OW, VI UM f*,
(4)cl,zowr 3ERro-Rtzrr .<1.4 elm 3p-wr 3114-o-r% in 3rEff7 Irilopawr zru .6 111tii4f tf t1
idr t tift iTwr fteia-elm ftu ri414-taf t :
ER%zlr * f*zr-ol, titiq in ft* elver form-fisc4 -er t $m1z we
f*,4rr TT tichcif t fMtt wiz* *1 c.r-m-f fd-R41 Ir Tr*Err I
(2)- ii ,erc614 .1 Fr and 3affkif#, 1923 (1923 TT 19) #, \JINNI (1) 31y0 31-ftif ittt #
WMnF i, fwzft elm pi-14*r% mar zpwr do Er-0-aivid Et qT t*ift, *
14 elm ita; fl'Ea W .* lotivr t
(3) 3t1tITT (1) tics (in), Y.4.5 (it) 30 RYI1j3.(sr) a~i 31:141# M alt117 e6c11 7, ft-41 .0,41 EECHT,
rta. TIT qty., z1 zf-4fi:ra.014 TO-4T, ‘itf MtEf tf, fwzTmr 'MT 6 M 3TEirff 414 3TVIET fdnaf Winn
t, 41\i{ qist tritu V-eft zu pfr Err, .itr zfrzr*711-9-31nET met alcl Itzfr &vial \iverar cm!
vigEft :
T-qT 3h7 31fEl5T7 37WThal1, 2005 8
PIETTM' 2--Te 37 all-OW?' atN• cae meactuRetV Trardrci 0
trrt au it ‘45 *-fr *-rgra Wk 4, it** t* aTf tt .iatr araftr velar t, m--Y4 979
*all* Oor t aut re S 4 ua* tz -4dgatE1d sew 3Pi1 e arm TO 7 *-41zr wr 1 ifl a
alit* Ow I
9 . a44 818M1 4 tri9 r 7 * 38917-9M 8 496V41 1:7Wrd-t-F .9 14 61(4 9-4r,
71WrNtife, 4)14 Act, TF9T 3TraTt ZIT & TP3-4 011) 11-.1.11 St talc fs-Rft at ti.161
3TenTh-T7 fiT *trrr, ‘mBi tria *aaar w*-4 fo-4 4-€1 &TN eIv4 t ft-Al ad* arftdozcsa*
srfThila,Ka 3e a i 3r.-oaf cr m--krrr I
10. titiwafta-dr--(1) "15E T111 44) Ern ailta t-1 qtr 3TTETI1 Tr1 arum- 7 Rnii viidr t fi 4 4
T -441* Tile # t AWz fSfi veld T1 z5,z vrt* t att aark7r# et-t# 9r8 44, tr-d-9 3T'ftrd-81
419 am *crwecr t*1 WE etrn f Tr>i C tfatir ar- ftz t t* arRrn-arr art9 Aaz
1.1)4 7r4T1 mz grtTr t 3f1T 71 Witt 1Tr9 f= e-4 TITWF toir amitz t, Varga* 94 t izi2tw
Trt-th t
(2) ‘,151 .ititrytf (1) ai 311114 3Tregef S ?St ITFT am T arja* mR nldi t aut TIfa, *-*ZI
Mlm tea r arNwr% zrr <1v4 c1)41 TLWIT alftrwrqtmikifticr Tiat 3T1WCT fit fV Ir kin ItRoq Tr4 arlir**r taw ItrTr ft, *Tr &Rita t 31iTom .t Aid R1 t
Are t coa Tram ‘iverecr arcar W 7ur ;
(*r) faR T.f <ppm, 1= -9t 3M-era war S 1 9Ravi Tiff Tr13TT Trrrrt S Tea, 1- tr
fThs:b4 3TFETtTe Myr ma cr)14 fAtott t ;
(TT) f41;7-44 4-rt=1 alc4 Th-T ere 3itTITW471 ;
(a) **-t 5Nr 14* t ig& 311-1 ier*mR vi .o.) t 1sN14 ailaacr, t NT( caT artur mer
wlf1t ; 3ftz
(u) 419 ai 51te- a fa s 14,9 t ark # wiTt 3truwIT
WeifTe 41tt mei TOP-1 41. eTIFTLT ebe41 'Pit trn air TRISTIt, WTI 19 etitTITT
(1) ailr9 falzkfkz 3iftwt ar ml a 1Thir Nitwit at fl1/4N-r TF9r aar-t-lt m`t fa, \LP-14-
\Ln.11, vItzrr tr 9.-€Er t t
11. Iry tar iithir—(1) zr2Trftea, ft-a orla, TE47T aftrwt IT1T Zlu4 c410 ga9r aar-t-r*
3Trbfk88W 3{tfm f4,4 Tr4 &era IF 4,14 ltfT tt-a-rr zrr 3r14d-a efe Wt-e eN4 mr
311117 t Tal f Tfi TT aiffie 11 TT4Rie tTIT WS rTr 431- T W471 fd-ne Trar t 3111 ‘3.4 Tr1 &rfSt-i 51tr ‘3*
14 414 Tim 'PIT t We, zrerrf3Tf4, Tiat Si! vu tIv r Mlm qa-9r arfa-t-rt arl*ET 51-rtzr 614 t
Ara tiff a ta-R-, C 4T ar-Ita aft aft t* eeTT m`t fktru tea-tr krrr aerrlitit, t-41-zr
Mlm Tia9r 311tWt zrr -41/4/4 (114) ga9r Sit ar \lot( nat zrr 31-Pro-er ZIT 3-RT* f tft 11- R ai 51-t-R cly<4
aura t, alti t* art 4 ft Ti-a9r ;Ft-a arrec ar Te, fMtru Irr Trtra- w t f all cmk
idtiT ITT uriai ev-IT Tkre S 1T-t—d9.TT 4 1,14 caflY-44 cMcf TT c4R-c “re W4-49.
air Et-9 4 Tar uipor :
gki743f4M 041q11 o pliaut, -T 1 a a TAT *R1414, 4k 4* Tr4-e9 4 tt-ftd, 4* TT
011 *1cir aR ItTif *Trrfa* arcrtift z r 4,rft * 311t- Trmutt t sr-t-z9 ailsicr fear Tr-Eirr
(2) 7-61 ecfleTT (1) t 3111-R, Zra, *-41-e (-act+ tfatir efirtit vii .<! n14 c.114) tfaar 3armit akr
wfid 471 itaar zI arf4A--a TIT *Tit 1 4r9 t art # Itt %air mri *Eta. aR7rt t, qui 40 aRcellar mi. 401 'u it ml ;eft ttetef alt utoifacr Amer t Ro.:9 aroma otk a 34-4-fff
Rai uwir
(3) We 7 .4 ft-711- ult t, zrarriftea, *4 TrT 3Tfertit ZIT '<MI elm TE441 -
We 6 3147 ZiTe..1 Vile 04 t trvtu1c 1i 1'49. 414 77 ce4R-1 Th"1 ‘ilitik7 (2) 31EIR 3Per4-49.
tr 31ra*7 t gar *al t,t0A-r“ qRx-o4 (AIII f i dad quit ZET 3IRTAt1 ZR 3TrS lirrr ail 5r 5a9
is Ur \nic ar -16 atk- ara4 faflx-oa m`t Tia9r itfau ft r& Deal tsr tar I
(4) kiLltlI'd (3) 3Taft9.t v1\-4.4 4 zru vii t *Prad Flilr It au TT UAT1, W-1 t.111 e t
Elle 19 31414 ‘14.-11=4.14 =DS. vu Finalt t I
trit 3T 31fitt5Y 31t 1tk2F1, 2005 9
(31Fiffra 3—nZI VHF 3RO1 0
31STIRI 3
4 TEM 31i4
12. <4414 irC4T MINIM 76T ITT4--(1) 6.<<PR eiwv1 # 3iftirT Urt, Tu ‘44T 317114
t wrw tlvrd fkm-r4 sr Traw aft, 7'r tilt Sul mr wzftTr 31tt urn
.utr tr afRilkzur aTtftw Trfer
(2) n4 tltlif 3114‘14 %icy{ 61,)4t1—
(T) airs-ou ;
(g) Tfr t 31a4 .3041 i3vir 4 1-4zr toir atrziwr, fta r arrazim ttiir
(3) to-r 3946 3it7 V9T 39-srl met fizif5ki, 7rcrErfa T'qf ThiairWticf 14tivr 4-4r
M't RittiRrr ER met nft-
(i)srgr94-4t, .4r 41114 m-r acute 61ir ;
(ii) iT4T # ?Ste mt eltlT ; 311q
arty -114ingtc q 4fliusci ait [T-t Tilt I
imc art ---,Wait Pirm*ger-Aw .1 rag 46 "k1 fszrr wor * if5 eil.0 tray 4 fame
* air zfr # irr4cir It t, aeR (110 # tt<CPH ?Salt 1;0(4 zratr a Iv
mi fttre mr dr trisrr yrNir
(4) 144 VIII effelt S cni41 *T 'w 1kut 314teuf, a* watn, pa VII 3T114T
fkfeff &TU, %frmet 1.1514m stair 3trzi--s4 4Rr met vrsrift aM at; ttl tit "rf4Zit air werw AR.
tiff coif' 30 414 mR trait, ffiws-r n4 TNT arrzkw Arty tack z4 rfr atfrizrxr * zit fist
aRt Attu % t 3riftw *fair srzkrr fszrr tmor t zrr q'r met wr 3T -sjt t
(5) 113Ef 311714t 311T gait &TR fafil, arR tat, 1144, iRar,
ulithr Trrur4 zrr 31‘1111-1 610 TI6 &Wm) 6TI7 31‘1W 3F144 1,04 41t vhiviii-f 4 srwo urfar
trit
(6) Iggf TM( 3TTS-4t ZIT ctAi ttayr 39-eft, 1.1 I cf, titlq Th-T ttat4 "za WI' slug ZIT iTET
Xluti forrwAsti sr twit f > 1fir 7IT 014 air Eli we 0 it TIT fit ,4.141?.0
#-4T we *11 31441 44 <mit( 0k, Ir /ff(P)4 iRr t coir
(7) **a toir anztrw T Ityirder, f4-A atR*--4zr ttaHr arrztrw, btu *mit(
317)-49. t, ITRd # aPjf tWIHI 4V cr)1464 Mita' 63fif I
13. tr-saftr 311I *dr TI4—(1) 'spa rif 3194t, WiT c11h4 Zl, ftifef aTIRT tfq f mtclr
4114 wi met and tr flaq WC EMT cr/111altv f7 trm :
TR% zru fk 014 pi' gait 3111-46 thia 44 Th`t arrg AfFt * 4Y3fff, We .R54 4 44 mu! we
4 1(
(2) TOM I 3171-4a; 3Yr cat4 rttml a 3itr9T 4 .46 01cir tri‘ zt4 met are'.
fag AT tird 41st Thcr 89 ART 0,<4 ws, 3w4 tf t)* tdWi EY, 114 > r rrtoT <Aiif Trif 31714U
* wr # Tif4111f . *It-c Trff erm :
TR% sOrs tt 11I 34171V, VT UMW * aitftff aprit 4a R-4t Th74 tR arif 12 MI.34111.4 (3)
relitz 1p4 ttaHr arrirr WI 4 ftrOf * it7 tITI*TT :
RFT" Th7 Offerth7T3710F4TPT, 2005
(31t714 3—tea 37-4f 3411471 I)
rift zit 3ft3 t we 3p91 39-4ff Th)- ljR3EF tall 39-0U WE z1 fagacf id zif wrar t
wiret tr-ar-aRr Tua-a-r arrsat 3i1zisuErz r anzpt z znv Ter %flay< trt -d- t 3Tf a@ Mu
(3) TY! TORT 3TiziW1 zrr th14 Tiif 39-47, 3717 1:K fa6uf trf gM. PT
fkftm uftr-ft ft--Rft calif * itT4T, tla &TO Rer-A-4 * fray 34ardia 5riwzr * arlim
R-.-qTrfer zn ArdWff c) 4 r1 3ft3 WH tH ‘t-ciferi cr)+If
(4) Wf Saar 3Tgpf zIT Thsri 31-Wffr 39-4Tf, Rift afi trot, 37&11:11t a1 tialfda 3194 6toRT3
t4 4kr 3TtHT tra ceipr Trtrrr :
IR% 771 3T-1T 39-07171911 Saar 3TT9-OU Th-1 E1131 14 .4 1ta tit * 6CH:r IT 3T-ETTI
(5) ti d e cr.-r 3ftz qt awr 1)ar*3r-4:r fdEitia /r4--
(w) Tyr 31-4m-arrzrou m`t atT errft, 11 'Jur fd-d-49. 3Trzfot m`tt ;
(R30 Saar auziat .et Tet fdaltia arrziat :
0-1 ad 113Vf 3F-IT arrzswr ZIT ad4 Taw( arrziat, 3rcrt fdzfter iffizt, ai tttmi t * 3rEfn
zrr f tiur 'wort z 3T4117 f ftEL-4 i)or * it-4Er 4 014 ei7F, 3WITaT ZEI ent 4'49 t surtt
m-i•Tr tt'r 39-4V ZIT Ta-9-r arr” wzr 4 tar * t-Or da-r t, ehrm
▪ rAwr* aitift sra Lttr 04 WM, fir Trzir zir 30 tanira 34dirr
• ta'r4m7 tcaflifit 0441* ar - --4r r41 * iviva dsrr aft t, cr)ir m-xr wRar ulNirr :
zrr; aM 1 aft Tut iwa-r 39 zrr 4,14 guar &Tat, am* fkift-r *
flrzr Zif '<log arfrazFr grir zrr 334 3TEfr1 tv-4 (Rd Witt has 4 in 4q tkct)K ZIT titer
tricbit iztrfkm.Fin zrr fd-ziurrtft9 Witt ilicpra di4-11 z1 mct irt 1=-tft tr4 tr4T ter z1 tlaT (dgf:r
twit t a1 T.9-1rlvtir 317T4W ZIT VT 3.111/4U 33I tIcif 34-4tI 4 3--tr*da r 3,
\,)cuflirct tb7a-41 tifiqe4 dsrt $t xthq Th,1 Th7 t 71\r/ft :
zru t T q r 31Tar4U 3ft3 vffr arrs-dt * da-r, aft t-4T tt ar- r rdi z-fra
fkoil**kra-ru, 3<ti ard-PM. 7iti 4 (IN ritta-d7 ti fd,ill .11qm I
(6) *-471 \it<crt{ It94z r 311rf 311-3 3Trzff it Thsr \sok 31%-th7ft 30 Th--4-41ft 311-Weci
wi.rceft, 3rRrazrxr* pc4t * eer Trmff *thq arravirT ti 30 It *
ger-AR. * fay fdvcr 1t7 Trc 31-14Thre4z4 31'13 31-- r Thsf tide do t aflz'+T$ awr ‘.)cif
3117 714 tit) ttift, 71- Fdltd aR °lig I
14. TM 319-4e zIT ljazi 39-4RT 75T rain qT9T--(1) \ititird (3) * 39-011* 31ift9'ii
▪ tair 39-4U ZIT it-fit iFT 3947r *I 3IctIM 3ITh TRT tur4cf cog:TM' 74T 3rwTQiart
arre0 31.11 t ulfr 6Clqf V.4 \i"ctICIq -ammo A,tivea RT v31 Trc ft3f1 far
viitr zrt fere tt1,zrea, 3111-4V irr tkclif &Flat atm 0
ter fdai dtgI
(2) 31tcift, 33:1 TNT rif Zif ailzifirel Thsf, 1 id.o4 (i) * ath
antcfrr -tuaki4 art far fauir 1PIT t trt Nzr aradis -0.41aiew mar Ride MT 4 rff 3PKorf'a
r31 arrksT vrf3cT ft-g wr-d Trq * Pdfdcr 3f1z zrft arruzm txrtra1, vtfi•
chlift44 turffara erk t aft trfaft -w-i-tick( I
(3) 34%,Nr (1) 4 31-ate It* 7IM * tt F aft 1.05 , algr tgV'u ailWr tiT toar
39-4Tr a13TrZsr ZRI 14C t 1144 4 1f, TA 4elliafa, 11-04 3194ti zrr 1‘1:11f
Ratfeir -altikuffa !dna IrzTT t, zrr
10
111-if a7 37fitefiff a1fge47171; 2005 11
(31t4171 3-**4 ti,zigli 31111)7 I 31 161T4 4-TT TM! 31711PT
(if) Zi6 attrezr * fR ,,11"ecg 66•041 7raT t, 7rzr it Ara Cr) 31ETT71f
at—a.t ; zrr
(*) artrt Trcrallr * arnk TR* cb tr at feitt utyr .aTrr Barr t ;
toRt S era zl, itti 1m in it en amtrer **rim zrq.tri• irk TO* NS; t ; at
(4) \itt its{ ?et-4hr 3ftz arRt art wr f'sq t ft4-4 a-ir 3TRE4T1 zn f2fitt
aniggi * in we* trif VY Witt-F WITT4 ti+110 ,11 t I
(4) nit pa 11a1T 31pif Tif 0)4 TM( 3T1714#, ftift WIT IRO tIt01'( UTZ TIT Wit* AZ #
S /Ft Witt tifEcr zrr *TT* #-4-4 zu Teti fgo44 t zrt 1 f*If4cr Sit * fkift ti4t4 * in
3NTVT SR.wel flgt4i* ern 1.11+11-tRf: toc6 miz irr \see *iv glA zrra f lT think zrr
nftafirzti ftttif *UT z15,svgltt (1) * TRW * eac 04lali *I tit girt tiq'irI
4ItQIQ 4
! irmt Win
15. VW irrif anew 75T MR-(0) u tltmr,c •ouitil 31ftirf zre (n art
*Fr) arrzfrn * *Fr * Arra ;r*Th0tir na* TA*, air ;rem a11Mtr* Taff Tr
trre4 z-4 re alfedkern* arth err qi4 I
(2) grwrir 3171)1T nieliCireiti firgTh-f 'MITT-
(*) /MI T l'4•11 39-4# ; aM
(#1) azr t 3Ia 3 1 eurr *Rrar weft fc.t4 3TRVIT intr qr1
(3) 'u"i tk4-If 311W aM V-OIT glair affrt Thzt IWPCT loservief r P*-IIMR1c1 zl
14101 r4t 14)41 elltiZt *I ftwete TR 'A -
(i) pEr*-4t, r Tried *I *um gl.nr ;
(ii) Thttlyr int ilrna an arc ; aih
Ity,441gRr itmflaicr fdwr wk zrraT In•ser ajr tliter
tit en-araft S 7 zwa a rlalwtil * fkg zrg drftre f-zrr wlnr t f f faaid eye *
fftft Tht 3tt Tic !Null t Trt t, agt Rtit4 *Nor( * fate Roe! Trc%
AVT rive wa TOT tdT #WITT
(4) .thrti VI-11 31171)71 *WW1 aT VTEIRITT 3TENT‘ M79. aM Trit/ #"W Hair 3TRI
Mtge trrrr, f i '<ivz1 31Tpet gre irgrzrur 4l eft 31fZ zrg zlfatlul Tr stztrrr
tr aftz eift tre 4)14 304.0*-R- t1.1 4 1i 41. ,(1 ,4 Hair arrzilTr -gre Ott artitriknntarth-4 f*7113r--
mt * fits** artztiftff 7g- ftm tcRil in* gat* **It t In* trz it t
(5) 'Cut( r tjatir aTTVer 3117 •tlytt daft 311718U flat ftg19'aitz - ItteARK61, tiiihsh)gr, AtET,
141 " dr,‘etiLict IfTWIT
zrrUM (il 30Wrfri # VN 30 aipw argil 1191uT 4. 5167U `fact
tfrf
(6) ,<1 n34 lrigf tjatir 3ITT4?1 ,dutt TNT. 3TrRT, -454Tilts ftPtici aii 'taro zrr f"0-#1. zrr
.<1•70.1e)1 * itc1N-4-isof are tiq.tqf Wet el 4 Ir zn ctil4 &RT 1P1 Thl tIRTIT If ifT WA.
tickg 91 OM ?TT (P)4 chI•01,< zfT ml 9f *tIT
RZV-11.3T 31111T7 ePT, 2005 12
01671-6 TN( 31172FT I)
(7) aunt qutit 31171117 ar Ityneicf xivef >tt TN'FlffT, 12V-4 •4 itoW ‘,1 n441
311111Mf gfrr fdPf4,t at)-( true The &rem, euti tww $14 3r4tr11 t, vrw 7t arm tfr
&Er4 crimIci4 tritfddwR-irftTFT
16. Tam% of tar aR sr -(1) xhitl -5-€7 toir arrpe we di tt Neer au arm as
u6ur 'volt t, zrfff 44 4 aver * ft traqTRuf cf, iif 3ilz Tir4431/4-1-*17 trra Tef trer :
TR71 4t 71-vf litqf The 31T7 ffef Lira arrzj sale ct) -f a tfrara, exr 71 Ira afrur Tef
m-ker
(2) A clic?) 3TuTf •R:071 31171W1 ViT fVff-4 317-41 a WT OICIT i 11-tff 4 aret
facurffrra TS 4 3rizi vrtu ift lichrt al-, WC EMT cf> 4 11 3fr. tmir Ittmr
311/14T1* 4 fkg Er' 41 61 , ir :
ER% ire7w - '<lug 7twe &rya, Te wawa * aitik 34'RI tra foe m--f4vz ErRr is met Niqtwzr
(3) fea t 'Gut! 74 ii-4-41 3174W ZiET 7t fkzifiate .trn trm :
tfrt au 31W fk vie eolf tAatir am art e.N4-ijur arrga?r * wr 7t ffizfia 4 wit t
wiett tiara ,(1.4 Tien arripa aM e,,er TeEr to-a affigia wr 7tta %co( taa 74 31
&REV 9-ezteft
(3)twt v4-113117j6ff 711 4114 trot Tmr ant altriT tfq 76uT tf 1T Tff
Thitki \itti ThTfcf ft-7 Tfc FCAt 31-41 cad* tee tr-Ot arfillt te ve'rqff * fk
TRW rfig VItIV ZIT Afaviff am 31'R WiTqt 371-k 61.ditr1 cr)lif I
(4) iraf 11337 %air 311714V of ctAi '<Nil THE 39-4V, Riff 7ft'Cutiglef <i4lfdd VTI-k
61.1141.( cf tilt1tr 3TE1* trq arr rrTr apt wi-Trr :
TITt ,<Ive.f 7 Till 3111-4V 711 'NA .4•.4 gyii 31111Wi Tht URI 17 4 14124f4Ea tea * zClelf VT
ti$) 4 11 I
(5) tida ad t alerT ift c>trr ztat 3TRT faead a11t 7T&-
(JO trot 11147 titir 3174V Thct att thfr, %-*11 1'4'4%7 t ;
RIO ,autr gait arrszo zfft aii *ft, ,41‘,4 itkcnKt tarr mg.:
ER% zdt ijuir <reit 39a? zrr 4,14 .cuer hair arrzpw aP311 ftsf4zr tvrrir Fro tHcrt<
aim zrr Rini% WM1 *MPH tt WM. tft Ek4 kat 'fag # 014 Ihrff, Gramm zrr erl etsrfftl
grgr art tr t a1 grwr \lair arrziwr zrr ,<Nei The VW * zv if kar zing 71wirrn
acivr Tfr 3xT . `jt 'Mg air, t *aim WIT f'Or tits Tcr ftzrr Trzrr err aM
1)ciati ‘34411 3TF-4-Kr Zfil 31- 1 x * 1)41Rifit twit S tiliqcRt tuff fit t m-Fr
m-z {tin Awn :
TR% zr-6 at( f fnr gtiiif au iT •Limtr arrziqtr, arErt ?if* witzr,
*471 3rfrOF 7ff xivg anitlftFF grr of afaitff Terifftu it-01fairq Zff cW14 *pow 711 '<Mt
ZTZWR 7rr Niutitlirr et-fft ,ivcDra 4;441 *1 41 Tftf 1 7#41 V-4t1 7t tlmfacar^i
writ Aria T6r t ar f tent tea it arrzpu off al' lair &ape tar * tisitr 7twiTt
cm t .e.)41AcIfif turcr-4* tmwrif asrt Tci '<c0 4-1 m-rt m- t.wsnit :
Tel tra 30 It ,c‘itt Teti im-r &Riau a117 e‘yer hair arproWi * adm, 1171 417 plat 4 ar - r
sr-4 w94 Thilar * ward .1-13 1: argrirwrgt Ric # 7rf3a -4-9 14)qr uiwii
1-4-qta5T 3111Ft7T 31f41:47Pf, 2005 13
(3TE717 Wk.-4-4T 3RtF7 13W111T 3TT*Tti TRTzli 3h pc4, 311-T MIT Yii -071
(6) •du7 t1 ti', .<1 nYef > 31-79T 3TiZ f 3.117 e4 ti i1 31TZERri n3c14 3ifirtitath ch
BifFeci frdk 5tr aitfra \J.-4) a4T Eur-da t ro-g ariaa tl
344ifkas Egnva fq ftsarer fd,c SW 3117 ar4r - m-`r ti4a mu
•()cIfe NEN 3t1i7lt 1 +11, ?dee. a1 vug
17. r
at.o3111-4ffm i *rail 3117V1 Tn *Gun 7171-(1) 37TTRT (3) 3741.11
3Traff F, •flutf 1139:f 377e1 ZIT WI 'MT 3rIT 31PriT ef ,<misier 3llaat 9N1 *Ind
crig Es.c ZIT aRsi2tar M &raw ER Er4 t aitt taw .syir, 74 \itzwit -4,141eizi ,a..24410( laNI
atl iN Witt MT 17 uti-er Erma zrt REM ttt fs, treafilTra, '<Ivo f var 39-4v TIT
tkc1-11 3firi Tht 37f 3ITETR t 6df Rqf unit 1Tfvv
(2) •C1/41-44 1-1Icl, 3-ff •LI u4 739. 'RIT-1T 394T ZIT '<MT 7149T TTzpd ef, l'ATre i -
-a14.WI (1) e
311-119. m'r Mar r4)71 WIT t, $ f s1 TR el' 1.4n SITRI 117
 311t4F la RAI \AO. den, 4a tf Mend 3117 31T-41 '(191 ill tffl
3Erf7a 61“r araft ift v$-Ea
(3) 37EITT (1) # 31edlsZ WI aTd e gra •<I•fiVilef, tivzt Iptaat 3ITzrf TIT
•Cv7 nT 3170V art, 3rt4f gNE, va ther ireT1T, aglffift, ,<I n34 39-4T zl ,<Vvii
3111P?FM R€IThW ri-II7Ruffcf fd ii ITZIT t ;zAT
(R31') ft-Al 3T9Z7 f'd7a1aR14 d6twr Tim t f7-fr# •aueitilet met # *row
atEmai at-daltd t ; ZTt
(a) at Nat EraraRt ultra alak Ea* X11 t ER 1Wt aa-14T qa1.14 # gaif t ; TIT
CEO '<I ugillef flf 'Rtzt k 111,010 ZIT ORO 314971-df * enkur Ifq ER 4k t64*art11-r2I t ; 7f
.3t0 fadta .4( 3T-41 Ita adta fat, .<1 ,4 32u4var arizr at tl ^Ttf
R,Far ausav* .ua 3tiaT---4 ER sTh-Ta Ram a-44 m`t Timaar t
(4) Tilt '<Nei' TAT k-7-
4T WO TIT cf))4 '<Nig hair 397T, re741 SIR '<Ng t(chk.gkf TIT
Zfret 3Tlt tt aft itt tRar Trr cfr<k tr t+4,4 zit \i *14 ftd74 t ZIT fth-41. ThiiPcf criv41—fl--fit
titer 1%Rft t 3117 arRi tuvi Wife # ZIT zTit trav
csa fst Trak at a13crFg1R6 ft-÷Tur Cdr Sal at 377Rf (1) eRata -
ffiq cr)41-41<m-r 4141
\TN]
3768111 5
tea if 311IIITT1 si alts. TM, 314IF
18. Iv analTti 4 viftai aM war-(1) qtr ziftftzrri M 31E117 i T, zTa,
e-417 TtT9T 31Tztirf 31-17F7 mT zfg cad fkRfroftad 1*-fft wf ci t fttiact
arrer cr, 3N- 3t -St ,114
tf~, f f1 **T ei)cp TI49T - SRI la .<1.4 ei ct, V91 aTRrwIt *.tr
crier t afltra ;NT cr,t4 rl 3rwR5 -Rtr t f i *tr aarktra &TIM aarTrat mnrei-Va
rig mIrt T t Z11, ZNITNfa, t4171.tIVIIct) Act, Ticir adtm-Rt -at tzu t16IlQ, Act)
St5ti 311E4n-Era aTETra ‘a-arZrr arcita fq saw is 3Era-RT (i) r1 thfaz
m'*4 -‘aar 31-ftwr# q.1 dlcv IjTflT atra-t-Rt 3\2141 „alto aTft-t-rt 7f, 7a,
e417 V9T 3TRt17 ZIT .<luzi 31791 31147 Tr1 3Te 3Tf-'47ff el *tk fW trilcw <t), 4 tl twR
mt Rat 5 ;
(u) f7# **I 344r4IPT r, air silts mit cr, sli 1c>i% dU, q T t tbIt ca at
rat;
71-4WT fi7 31MWIV 31nPf, 2005 14
(zrurr3/4 arptirti 41 313o31 alt7 Tver, arta-WM 311 I)
(Tr) fa re arl3/4f4-33 art-4 Idni4td mini--014r S ift t fac -Err 7L-33-r 3-*
Tr-dv * fay arltEr 41 3-3,r 3-tf 13/43/41 TrErr ;
(Er) 1" -fftf tift aft mt f er tiara crn4 tl aiturn e Tit t tvivcif
zn iirTST-41 t ;
(A Wr zru fame <Nor t f 311 Tizr &rifle * arm 3-3 4 sier4 4r* zn fkarr
stair t ;
(3) -4--e arf3/4f473 arri19 3TRI*311 ffig atru eta yr 34 3-* Trn srrtv cbt'r t
1141 ftifi 3wr ?tom * 314Er -4
(2) wtrt, cartlWa, 14Itr suit 31Tztfil zn Vat Tilt 3111107 MT VS TIMM t uficif t ff We
13/443 4 qt3 *R-4 (g s idnicr arruR t Ere ag- it-43 4 7t3 arrtzr aR 3*ir
(a) <maid, et-414 cm! anti zit 3Tal squat anti ari, 3 i firer 311ft-4 ftb-74T Hrifc4 14 7t7
aim WWI at /1%til TM Olt 'Al 1-4.aRscr mwal S71-4ETT1 Miller 3TftTft 1908 (1908
as 8) Zt arm int 7T4 45t atikuf WO WM fAcaer .3131c13 4 1.4k *41 t amt‘ :—
(*) f*-41 cerRiv41 e emir ark 34 ward tear vur /1334z .Nscr, zn fa
ink3 3/4-4 * fa-c aft-{ gtold.or 7rr 414 d3t mmd fa-c ‘iricrir few em rr ;
(37) qtyrid ,* S wyercovr ait7 13/4433 apart emir ;
(-3) 33333 Yt w3Er Wr aarrgr *err ;
(v) f# -3131ero in *131(44*%ift Act) &Prow ZIT Wifeb`i gralit ;
(3) trtgri zrr Oterr * fa-c trir4 un'a emir ;30
( i) el 3T- 1 R1,14, Wr 13/4-ft3 fkAir -3-rc
(4) 'fa, *135 7T 3.g f*Rft awr atuftz- %-ift ar3-33 3-ru S
*3/4 -gq 3.3-ftft, *-41-3 ter anti Err IRK arrtrr Te sane * WM- It* 914,13ct
cra * 4134, -trt 1*-41 arfra-ur 4R Trqta-r *-7 ***, f".4 zro- arf3/4ffiErri oil 51(3 t Wr
or le grftwr% * Nior >1 t aft7 3-** firer 4-4 ft-* arftr-A3r Thsr f*--4f anErrt vz ,k)r 4--ef
,sri
19. at4--(1) \tar cb co4 , KITT 7 Thnt .3L1 kf (1) ZFT WWITZT (3) f4Thf141Z
•(1 1 14 S-41-d7 cF))4 nRYTI4 iiwt you t zrr 31, tar, -**3 At <reit 301MT4t VI 3 ,74 ci co
ttorr &Wei* It* fdPnr4 t arfird t, 37T aver e 7r3rfit zrr ifs* fannw 4R sr-Rr t
di* id4 * *37 Vr aaregt Wr arta *7 err, olt wi3/4(nor -4, 3a, *43 ele
ter arfire% zn '<NU Act) ter arf.3/4*-ffr 4R *3/4* ,Ato Of t 5r t
a r 3Tfait, ciltf f44 31-4Tt * trufi3/4 S TtErra- arta *1 :16,4 *7 TitTTT,
tifi i wlal t f 3110—eT2ft tov-f TIT 31114F 1:5MF cfrz4 WIZ cmuf el qatpcf 'Ruff iTzfT 2T1 I
(2) WOI 3T4TF arms 11 31eff, 331IWZr, if** btu et)4) TI-11 NNW% ZIT ft-It '<Iva ei
ter aaret ur-* ITT ci4Rcr e ter sr*-3 cr(4 * fq fsc f*-31 arrkw I3/474-4 wrt t
*-4-13/43 cerRcr -gr3 arta 3* 31T-0T Met UtTI t tear f3/44 * 4137 e 717* I
(3) \sytit•Cf (1) 307 fdr4ra4 S 7-* aril-a-3* -31711 f*-**-1 idfa xv4 +if W-1r
wiltq gif TIT umcr 4 -gm idgm- -33r 3-r, 34 13/43 t 4137 ntZI antrr -Err 3 ,,3 ter arrem Wr
:
4fzfi ntzf tgaHr arr313 3T war Thu a**-3 arer *MI *zIWTIU,
arta Wr meir *774-3r, of \iticnt 7F wirarff r1 .tint t if* artmelf itvizt 314tF 1W1-cr<4 t
Trzav *Nur 71-1441Rcr 14,31 'rut ell I
RIV-4Ta7 airS 3114124W 2005 15
(3TE3TT7 5-3:149T 3TP1)-91 met 70611130 cpceT, 3TOF ciwr
(4) Ti ifeifcr, *--4zr etch 3Tfirmrt itkci-fT &ftmit MT R1xi44, f*T-M
itieg 3TTIta met Tr-4 t, a St guar t e-4fire t zreTNizt, t-41-zr to4T smite zrr
&Rite we At s-1 farsor Nati ter I
(5) arlta-44tft tt--4t zr-g tirnd coa Th-r 1TR it arite Sr areilmw cm-ir -eiz4
Tra, nit eiliso ‘.49.1 Suit zrr d"'T ctlm tgair aarmit q i 3r ter t
gm 6191 I
(6) ctvwltf (1) UT 3TPTRT (2) M 312f1-9 fm4 aTtita fiT f44ciU, ctic)- tb-NETN.tf,
&to. Mt ART M cifk i f49 zrr f4toRcr aver ift-d% It tut E5Ttu St flu
t Tcrr tate ika t Arm 9 fanir utikor
(7) ZfeTERkTM, M4A IT9T3TRIYIT ur i<ivel V91 &Tem MT 1 P riet a 1 11 I
(8) 3T1Tk fanY14-1 t, 72ITR-Az , **a 491 arntre ur i6v0 itticfrif &utu mt fii9fefav St
ear t--
(s) olcr) esit t 6419 qr<4 Aar 4refT, 4.re 3Tf1n1riiT 61-140.sr
arrruff q t 1 M rd-q 31T-4-Fm t1, f3 9t atera. ti-irerf29kr 1ft ge :--
(i) 314T es Ern 3Er-Te4 ctrAlf, Tft ftftve AMA # &PT Their tPaT t ;
(ii) eerrfita t-41-zr Mlcn RiF4-91 3armitur triT ciilcb 37-4r arthrt itt f4zjar
<weir ;
clQ`1411-49T Tir V9T g4111maid grelf ;
(iv) arftr-4eti arnur, war AR-Riitr tf tifird 3TETt traZII 31tazz trfedff
ir<`i ;
(v) 3T4A aarsTftel TF-4r 3Tft1R t-ar # srfOratur .tvdv a t 441-ir ;
(vi) ITT 4 Mt ZITUTRT (1) (U) 31-11.RuT 4 &Eft TM 91111.-M f 31:1K&T
inTI;
((3f) ei t Ricbtirdoof Sr, we* tier St Tr fa* trf4 Mira
Trenitff cry(4 Si &der crwir ;
(Tr) Te 3if TuN * 31.014 37-4fuu TrWi #* Srt Vitt aOrtferd <weir ;
(iEr) 3r1k4-4 Sr aTT4t cfre-it
(9) AVIIffint, T 1T 31.491 - 31Tel1T -AT A%314 30.913T417 WfaftiTt, 3194
14. M21; eq-iTM *eft 31tir 01)4 31WM-R 11) t, to-it ter I
(1) zwrfibrit, S-4te ittpir 31*1 ur ti'sr autt, S sr f41)zrie \el 5rWzrr
cr,W, fete St \
20. ‘11MT--(1) yid Wt filtlqd TIT arfra tcl (Ma zrarfttt, M-au V91.
aute ITT A nJ4t r we're zrt ¶ t fT, zre-Mit, c6114 (to ter arftrart er %ever olco Naar
&14-mrt fm-41- If*TOU cnii<ur * Rif * RN ml 3rr4-49-RP:et ctr<4 tl aok 14)ir tin 917
• 7 Mt WTTT6. (1) M. 3TE1)9.fal'az *Nig 'Ric44T t arf1791411,44) 'VT 3iPT
tl art flailt 3T101. TIT FTTM iT9T't t Tiff 3tT RiF9T mit 9TZ t,
r@tu -MT ?OPT eft urWet t wer slat t .ffl S 3Orm. f4-4 fa-Q 6-m
3uke4 grie f4,4r \mot * zrr Naart wth t, t aft >rW 04 q Met -srrikr &Were crAth, -mei; \
write SI g'ef ner t arrus qi :
aliTM7V3largePT, 2005 16
(attars arrarti aR Slut Ay Tor, 3141*. MIT IN zit I attars 6--Ta9ot
imT144ra, c4ler Mlm gait arltrewet Zit war al* cm awe* a, wwuz cIN *die
arfotite fas7 vr* Tart a ifteiere ar-ori. ?Orr ArNir :
wagz 3M f i ere- eut irr{ f i 8 qct tl aft' acwwrj4m eii lava t,
emilafk ckIti es)a, TNT &lira% Zif 7raT toir arftra* g erTrr
(2) wet Ito.* 9icriticr zif arta MT ThArt4 WIPE 91TilW?f,tnift *1;4-9 anti ZfT
tit arretr9 a -erg wer eleuRaRt ckla. cliff arta* at truer eher, toir 3rRratt, ftt
-g%Teja cppoi * fair 30 etimpr tkair * rag. iert ad-4R. srRt * &mu t err and errw
7 Thzt n391/4ii•IT (1) * 3141-4 ear& w * Iftff Tilt Te tT t ZIT afirciTRIVI'M 1,411* re7 3tVitT i
*mix itzrr t err \At-vow 9cicr, artof in FIRM t 11T t#11:71-4T WTZ art Rut t, V‘f
refer a faegr eft Trr ftt *Agit war .4rt *ere 41. gallant tst • 51uMlcoTitir
arfirtut Trr tsci olco ‘79-r ea** fd/h9 w**.pl*err fiwt aS argirwri* *tart fw
%mike crigr
awn 6
UMW
21. ttcitwx4a, aI cni ar4 ititnr-cp art arfirzfrur9. TIT r41 fdfd4) cm ai
aft tit Ora wrk kq1 . 3arfier9 trr we* Neff 4917 117 ft#1 Thug * 31ti54 ti5+94 104) Met Trt
t err 4R ,n14 * fe7 arreftre t, ftt car fa.04 9.;lift I
22. align T57 31191M1t Atrr4 TIRT-re 31021ffilliT * n'tiC6I4 IlWr WM a 1923
(1923 MT 19) 317 cicli 414 WIT it-Ot 31-41 fer * in yr &Etna * 3TRRIT ltrift fditt * 311t1T?
;nag Rwr% ileft ft-fft fi-ere ‘3144 areTru ?et we* tlk 97141' tt I
23. caigiVial Mgt 41DMIRcli 157 114-4-0)4 affir4ZPT 3ititff it7 fen 3fitli
M 3TMT 4 ml dig 39*99 ar ar- r wre1911. **or 9.tf cr>nr aft-it* ft* arras a, yr arftlf4a
art 9. fst arEfra- * wr 4 * faigiu ftt wr 4 sreTru att fd)or nIIIVIT I
24. 3itile447T aiT MIMI itTPA WIi *RT— (1) arferfia * aim 014 919., nrzf
tkcoK 1711tiincf arRowr aM tj i *gal t Tr* ar-fitt faThf4td t zrr tr **at
11XCPH Trt ft-ift Ttir wri 9-41 tit :
TR% iitcrarr aM 9r-94 &Rat * edam arfirnr9I W-afera 11;air yr nu* * art9
areraf4a 9.61 aR wrcrift
trit am attR. ft eif4 Trt-Tft Trt toir 9I1gifacri4 arts &filar** t al .R19-9r,
ader 1-019 31TerTT * aroma * TITTITff, tt it 31‘tR. Etre 7 * ftlit Wff * tl* F 7ft, tift VL4-4T
ar-erer ai wrfitr* tfoielle fa-itAtm-a wrcift I
(2)*-4rir Iltrbl< riwyu # 34tfrT WU, *TO 5r 3-* tl'<cDf•T TRT *kind itilt 3T-41
satyr in Malt tiqcsi a r .114 *falfcr cpti Zir ‘3114 t ire* fett ti9oi a wet ci tr
ar<41, tiO -r wait 30 titft arfirrr *5rwrzm te 1490-r a 9r-fet *, trerrfkft,
fa)qr WIT IT \3•2101 Rpm MET .(1H91 ,alqir
(3) WIN (2) ai 31419. Wqr That lit rd)W 3iftri:MT, 51*M *NI * WIT& 7Eit 7711 I
(4) IV antifktirf Met 4A4 41* tr* 3TIV9T 3M ti4IF*Trat Th-11 (111 we *fl,
WRT mf4r tre ti1iod t f1i a5 'dkitt)K xiottil 4 arfir-iwir gm, a5. :
tr-q-t 31‘ZNIT 3i17 Trr9.4 31NIMT* * arf'daror * 3TRTMeli * *ern tttpir yr \awe * art9
artrequ 9.-41 4t AI1 ,11 :
rta'rr asr Seri ear!, 2005 17
(arum 6—vertif
tr1 uti ate fs of Trt ‘let Iffk4 tftrm-RI * urdm-Trur arfAmwrl t al cliff
RTWT irrt aTr4Yrf * WITIY-44 t tir411 ttt WT\TTit WIT 7 4 %-fit 4Tff * tit tiff
3T ET TeT Aft* eter-4te fkt * ifteTt ufwIt
(5) witeir (4) * attfk ITPf•T 301114-1T Wwf * ,(1 114I Tit \
25. lirktef WM ad RIM T5-1-47—(1) 44eTiP4111,nizT torif anti ZIT utf n'cl 1 I 3117h,
we* elf * ate * Time, zreRestRitifer tl wit ett * 31f4f4zur * dvawl * crie41.1 ,44 *
3iTtst 75 dart o3iir 30 weer Trfa efts eiopier itter
(2) ;Or* ikiciLf 4T TbillT, 31rIk1 aTlitTTRaT * *UR' csYcr) ITITcnif4tit * Rt4ti k N31-4-41
Tee ok.ir 31 wit zr2trf#aft, *-4te quit trete zIr 7TwT ittmr &rem w4cicki .q)- FrrtT 31617 chit cr)S- *fk artRire t attz pr wit * sretut * ra7, 3tT tia,r air tk uerr
349‘c Ttik tl tjc1Elct &kora* T-T gruff cp , ir I
(3) rot* ftkil wiT eti * f*rt t, Thi11ZiRgcr * e 4 ewe 6 ir,—
(*) woke alm Tfitrerie tl fLq TR 3r rat t iitwr ;
(u) kre faRraitt emitui6T 3144T &net * 3T-gRe 4 ‹iitidult Tr-de * ft&c
sec( eel' k pr aiRerizre * k tits f amftff tr fkflqivr rec TR it 31IT Or \wit 0
W4 *TY WT4111 m-r Glade( flar ear yr ;
(Tr) Tifaillcrs * R4ti, qw4iffir, *-4tir 31T4YTT T •tivt/ tkarlf &Teri TY f4f4te al
artitet eurr, apitet aR sr-ffW 3fi tfte't * Thischti ;
(9) qtr aiRrfacr * we * edtr 4 WI. ail T% * fdi>4 ar-Tera
fkftitret ;
(z) aTfirfkzni * 34Eff7 ro!re ii)cn sAcopa gRr stmae met cp ,
M 014 tik uezr, q't pr aTfrqzre m`t era97 31R tree er was. 3t1i. cr)14ncr <wet *
1'47 e4q, miracpifizit * feft WIRT TY .ivalcf cna ;
(D) ItTri f fetrifi4, f atelra 3tT aTfrizre trr 31-T mtIN ur imme Wit S
ftresre era, apicarmor, t3wlr ur tisrlfrt * fkq fafttic cilm sraerf3t * Tr4t1
RitoiRit *1 tali do t *34111TR Siadixilef still t RritTru 4,14 &RT ?Om t
(4) •-mulaufk, nzi *Ptcbvt ITT al3i vivor( S a4 * 3ta tr44M,, 42TRTP2firTETUT tr, ZITETTRT
(1) 4 RIktid zrouRrfk, **El igair anti Zir truerter arte et Nit zn't sr* Ale sr- re
33-47 * Wgi tkere-i-iser ;On. ett * Hirst aft vist tra ften-'t
criF eke * et 3tt ei-r * .eTrei
(s) zrfk 441i, 3WiT 3TRIYTT talT 3TREYTT al tRiT Ifern 001 fT 3Tfflflra=1 * WM.
sick Tiift a r Asti <Dik S #44 4 fell Act, wfiltrie et Tra anitinVi * Z1T4E11 tir 21791.
ariuT ettft et sofacme tre d4ItZ 6 re4i cbir , r, weer TIT 4 ‘,41 arwrer 4qr4
* fkg fm-q wr4 Ritbovi zb--(ticki
26. 'WPM antiani teR itaf n—(1) 41Rd *Wry{ Rrfltf ails 31- f it€TEit Thct
eirweaer et iThir nm
(e) want aR, fkstc tot , ukRivieFRII tin e 4 11 et 4 cniit * It
tftnzre * attire 3r- tarn aiteril TT wete Mke- land urc fftre 0140‘f et welt 30
anerrAeart w*It ;
(u) ol<t, 11(Qcr,ifiel 4*, ids CO 4 fee Totzlost -cer still 31)7 we* tretee 4 lire tk
aflt to crwianii un tcl itiRe * fke- thceiW a t eeeft ;
I-411 WI.31I-OWIT 310FORT, 2005 18
Camara 6—atuf
(Tr) ellq, 1111dcnlr3gr Urtr 4-1 ,1 DIAI0c161) St 4 tla .ritzrri r 5 iTaa afR aarkt
TRaRa k)c ,414 m'r 141clf TrMt ;
(a) erlco Irikcfroir t, flIzrctlm to-rr 3A-m-ritit zrr thref cti cv toir
aTfirm-Pal Mr ATIAN apt trEt aft Act, wqr tau * zazkir fc tsitTra- aftrkrur
111411ii . ‘irriq-r mRtr-Mift
(2) willta \TOOK Ttr aarflzra artnt &ran aRT am it Wq'RTAT #, *16,4 worm
tilt tl trt vat art am ti<DIcr 1- 11c61 Stl itt altar wa IRarou
air aR uriQ afafaaa 4 itre& fd tft 3TRWR mT wag irriir 116or t I
(3) tripa. trictrK 311-476S t a1; 'i'aii'a (2) # i#f4V arkat 13r-dal ail kiAir &Wrl
gY arercier artt am-rfird irN1, irr 3i1t 'sa la (2) Mt ciwitor gt arce galasl cf krtr
Thi-Rald *Arad 61.IT-
(() Tff arfETf t ai 3104 ;
030 VHF 5 at 3.C1EIRF (1) * 316N nVti TOTS d 4) Al 4r<of 41Vil cf, 1u ctlm
to-a aarm-rtr zrr erlorr to it 3 mr sigh ails Trtt arr Trar, Siff 30 SAW
zrft we it al ‘ilict>1 *A a-5Po slip atrr ;
(a) ag %ft afr sma, zrarfOria, Witt .M-41-zrcw to-a aarm-Rt zrr
ta if 3Tfiran fSfit W4- 41 - Tr ST 3T-1-46 ItifT ;
(a) Btr aSa M artfra cft W.acirtur zrenfOilt, emt fla el co Ikepir aarmt zrr
.auir eilm ,ittfrr am-rtr tr \Her*, 661A41 atR \it! m-kar ;
(z) IT'arftedi nrci arrthlT 711 '(1v(1 3TiztilT \96141cli;
()) 3#6f#61:1 sat err aarera itt tirmw AT mdur M Rt4Ei T1 ml cpid scrri
err crrii'r 4 ariwa 16 'ilk 4 fa 4 ‘iverm ff4t \war< f' -a-M atm% arrarTr msr &Ira- Tur-*-a
an MI tit ftt;
(13) aRr 4 M 3r-grR arfk-'d-t t aaTif Rot Trmaa M ta AT-46N cm'''. ari.). \ITIEta ;
0) knit 31-aar g etc ar-olTtr W4a Watr Aii=r art Ire
‘--4-arq ; zitt
Ttr afElfdu>i M 3T-OTR WIft tiir c Tr -da arta * TEST 4 crirq zrr
f4)c TR 014 a kRirif ar era I
(4) Trpa. *rink ail, irk 31TraiT el, faAfda Sat 1:17 614671 Pra ail 31-Era7 30
vmrltd WeRI
27. flat ART# rfazr---(1) trip - Te arfElf rut t \aLoial Mr
cbtir cm=r Rw, .<1 ,441ti aTRRtaar gpir, f)irir Aar titt I
(2) kf3rtediri 117 laart vr% aR aligintir gt Sear TINA sii:r td tr, t'r
Tit tri rSt forzr t ilti Wri6 St wmta, arafa :—
(m) ETRE 4 St 6AART (4) i 31616 Mill d aR vii4 AlSt t,IflhIdI * TAW( St en Id ZiT
VA-c euricr =keg
(eT) 6RT 6 St BAUM (1) S 3A11# .(14.Ste ;
(TT) UM 7 at 3701 (1) aft 446I6.(5) S arta air 'STU ;
(V) ETRE 13 $t BITAR! (6) 30 tIM 16 St 366Rf (6) * art 311 -TRZ6 aitR.3744
m'r tkix do-r 31'R IT4 war 3amet tlgr * fa-Mra ails iris ;
7 3111M7? Sag, 2005 19
(31EZETZT 6-1Tert
(V EMT 19 tt 34E1RT (10) aitft9• 314Wi MT fanYTRT (t)g zIWI tf, S-41-4 Saar &Rh ar e ver r arr*Tr 1rr arcrffrt wr4 art gitar
(a) 4,14 ar- r fd-Ezt, ffitte Itc wr4 1 ardfkre ur faro Dx1r wrc I
28. ftrf riT4 aft TWIT labia VT (1) RiaFT rfr Meal. 4 eiq‘? al
cplii yr mtr * dlii, X1u141 4 &RR:m-1 gre MIT a-1r tIck.
(2) MP! tied r afr Omit sr% met W147,c1r Rz C mrra sit fmr,el Ra spit ar %tit roar t itq n344 Wi 144, arsk : —
(i) EMT 4 aR 3VEIRT (4) t 311119" TRTTRU aT at i tfrazil Thrt el1 4 1cf TIT Thee.
di Id Vet ;
arsr 6 St wzraRr (1) ariltff fl 4 INT ;
(iii) %INT 7 Thci \JINNI (1) 31}frff ; 3117
(iv) cr>1 ar-4( RERE, fro fd ti t ff&7 arerare Fl zrr Thfud
29. ALA rm qmt—(1) i aiRAtm arm niT Yinii TRI. 41141 TRH Ac Fi fa4H,
9'11 Sr vi Trsara; zrstRfmr, tie5 srtw turf *WRaf, VI au tel Ter the f49- 31-44 4 er, s:m 4 &star l ar attrm arilm-f4m loci 4 iet temIt surr w1t=1r ails 41Z wfr Ligrmr arrImam * cr, ara s,rq araerff a114 <1-4 aq.t 3zi I) q if 4 q) 14 q),<k fgq •usi. arm q'rq• ft ter fa4H rsf lei 41141
elfir Thqg CicilMkt 4211111Zr, cclef l nillicIRCI -RW 4 gr Watra tir trr licbr cr) we 61 4Ir i a2efd, 3 T fa4ir t ‘i ic, Pct Tif MIR4110 trk s art TO met Trt 1** are met fa 1-11 r Tr Aft Riga 9-61 attrr
(2) usi 3TRIftZTIT &EN. Win *Nct)PC ART €1.1141 TRIT TkITfl4H 3Tga itk WIA trsara; asesitgr, e1r4 forrff-Tt-dF * sprer ezar w114r
30. gavu*41 al V* WA'aR VIRZI-(1) ia r 3arliTIT .3 1444i ail writ cr) ,<4 4 cb
m-ea9rt —r t el **a tHcb i"14l Tl gm-rike arrksr 'gR1 wra an trml-41
ariV4zre utratti tr arstrra ati e t art m'r 7 an r fW arrasaw arls \Li tft t v-jte tra
:
cr) r arrksr *fl arRifflaff a 504 al a ai amid met
-ea t Imre f iZ 4r oluvir
(2) ETRT 3T0t9. %ZIT TRIT SA'W 31thr, 4r418; 8.EITVIRT, titiq t jifl *tiger t RTTRT •MT If I
31. 1drti -3:091 talciar 3TRIzAtTli, 2002 (2003 Th-T 5) 4 ,0 gRr 'tare fd 4r W1dr t
1-471 a7 3111?/WI1 31fre/ziff, 2005 20
(reg? 31-114t)
treed
pare 13(3) at( In 16(3) 4%1
1F34 317144btrieri 31F144/1 rT ttrr1f alittclATW alittcf W1T
wr4 gat WM Zit itq qT4 40 30364 MT TWIT
TGEr chit atrzsaWil-44-r zrrisqui ijur q-crir
arrs-orhmt To-9-r 3Trzwr fir gar' ta-i wrar ka-r t 4 Mt wRTrail 1
Irctifltar t Irfavrr groir
tildE-r 5rft *IQ J5w atti f)tor ,<tr, 4-rwa St myr 3117 Sr mint ,<tt ir ff2T1 twqr<r),
AWR t ail. uqr artr4t let trr74-ar, N atIR- [ado arm trq S wr Irzr zfr Trecrra,
tir tti cm;riir err 4 tifakri4 ati. falW aft 'fir '<tin( ri
grIT 3ifirO1V S, 2005
VT% 3rOrt)
d
OM 24 t1:617)
4 tivcinv TZTWOW annuli 3111 R3111aq
21
1. 36-VT cyt
2. Itelltga' <8(44 31V1TH 34•V edV*414 RIk
3. .6 n414 airrt Akzuti4
4. *414 Mift 31TRMI Pe I
5. Tr4-49- fe4t4T1W8 I
6. \Limo) Thit1111 \)-
7. alit1W 3TVEIR -5 I
8. fUti-#111-M WF
9. tnni Taff AW
10. *--41-4 glWzr ka- I
11. 11TM-faW6 41 4-1: ra I
12. nr1z 311-01TW Taff ra
13. , 4er Ter , 11.4
14. 3R .<164icif
1 [15. TraM tflfir 4-6.
16. affir-m7 116in (31*ful)
17. tillef 04/ 41c5.1 311tarff ti 4 loq I
18. 1-4414 31TRMT 111"1-8: 1TRa
2[19. fkillEf tRarr
20. MT 393,1919' 311V14i4 6 to I
21. 44 3:1-4W f'ftrff EU I
22. rl lu TAIT arc tAqlelef
Ministry of Home Affairs
LIBRA it `r
Ace.
Date
1. ITOM-TOMO 347, (-8 ti• 28-9-2005 4RT AliaNITRfa I
2. 71T0*TOMD 347, kf 28-9-2005 8H1 (28-9-2005 t) 318WRTnira I
14 At15 4u i po -14
cir:—(1) swim- 30fdmu 5rtiaT, DIM( writar 5r-t-mrff, ITRu *wok, m-cdtzTf
ItridTTCRI3rs, R$ ftr-110- 001.
(2) TWEVI7-ni1m, ITTRU tkcrt{ feaw itt-110 054. 